“Will you come and see me?”                                          181
affectionate attention; and, depend upon it, you will speedily receive
“Yours, etc.”
of the grave or tortured the living animal to animate the lifeless
for clearness and precision; add to this a facility of expression and a
supposed that my vessel would have been a resource which he would not
Society, I own, is necessary to me. I have been a disappointed man, and
desired the contrary, but that I hoped that, with reflection, their courage
condition. I found myself similar yet at the same time strangely
my own food and fuel for the cottage. When I returned, as often as it
before you had urged your diabolical vengeance to this extremity,
I quite forgot! I ought not to have said a word about it. I promised
In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how
change in her also. She was thinner and had lost much of that heavenly
domestic happiness were overthrown. But Mr. Bennet was not of a
to be sure, it would have been such a thing for me! The quiet, the
and much self-gratulation on the prospect of a connection between the
roasting and cutting up a fool. A man in the early eighteenth century,
Thorpe, the Eltons, Mrs. Norris, and one or two others to their company,
of the best of these I entered, but I had hardly placed my foot within
one. I always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady
I did not contemplate making any other use of them than temporary
island, almost concealed amongst the foliage of those lovely trees; and now
she wished it to take place as soon as possible, which he trusted would
rugged bosoms. My lieutenant, for instance, is a man of wonderful courage
The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.
of happiness that it was in my power to bestow? He saw my change of
and perhaps also she thought of the dreadful secret which I had
Elizabeth received from Lydia on her marriage explained to her that, by
“No, indeed. I do not wish to avoid the walk. The distance is nothing,
“They entered the breakfast-room”                                    143
autumn so unhappy, flying to solitude from the society of every
considered whether I should not declare myself guilty and suffer the
was dreaded by the elder Miss Bennets--and Jane more especially, who
to undutiful children. Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in talking
abominable. How shall we punish him for such a speech?”
escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her
and misfortune; I felt suddenly, and for the first time during many months,
“Oh, but their removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is such a
himself to strangers?”
Occupied in observing Mr. Bingley’s attention to her sister, Elizabeth
“My real purpose was to see _you_, and to judge, if I could, whether I
said Mrs. Bennet to her husband, “and all the others equally well
“How queer it seems,” Alice said to herself, “to be going messages for
their present feelings were, seemed unjustifiable.”
thing of his sister! It is really too distressing, I am sure you must
foundation is unjust. Caroline is incapable of wilfully deceiving
avenue.”
skimming out, straight at the Footman’s head: it just grazed his nose,
“Certainly; it would indeed be very impertinent and inhuman in me to
dæmon employ every art to destroy me and tear me from the glimpse of
“My dear Brother,
the day. If I should be engaged, I will at least make notes. This
cottage burnt, his lands laid waste, and he is turned adrift, homeless,
Elizabeth, feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant
convey to us.
butler, who said,--
turning to Elizabeth, said,--
surprising accident, on this shore, renowned for its hospitality,
from Miss Bennet’s general habits, she was absolutely incredulous here.
for she does not know which are the best warehouses. Oh, brother, how
Bennet coolly observed,--
kindly influence ceased to act—I found myself fettered again to grief
_he_ was the cause--his pride and caprice were the cause--of all that
I resolved to remain silent.
Chapter 4
and Felix departed on a long country walk, and the old man, at his own
having passed at the Netherfield ball, and as confirming all his first
time since he had had the pleasure of seeing her;” and, before she could
partiality.”
Morning dawned before I arrived at the village of Chamounix; I took no
before she made her next remark. “Then the eleventh day must have been
gave them meaning.
walker. I shall never forget her appearance this morning. She really
and _her_ being the sister of Jane, was enough, at a time when the
manœuvre of Mrs. Bennet had to wait for their carriage a quarter of an
home has been London, where a lady lives with her, and superintends her
While thus engaged, Elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether
one argument in favour of its propriety.”
I rather wonder now at your knowing _any_.”
soon led to another; and Mrs. Bennet found, with amazement and horror,
Petersburgh, I feel a cold northern breeze play upon my cheeks, which
marry early. The last born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth
visits of her uncle and aunt from the city.
despair. I sincerely hope your Christmas in Hertfordshire may abound in
on me as a wretch doomed to ignominy and perdition. What could I do?
must marry. A clergyman like you must marry. Choose properly, choose a
already alluded to, and it makes a detailed dwelling on their beauties
having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the secrets of
out even so much as this.”
shape doesn’t matter,” it said,) and then all the party were placed
her was amazing!--but to speak with such civility, to inquire after her
story gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so direct a
rendered it almost too horrible for human eyes. But I scarcely
and economy. Had it been your uncle’s doing, I must and _would_ have
she endeavoured to give pleasure were pre-possessed in her favour.
“Not at all,” he replied: “they were brightened by the exercise.” A
hurried into the vestibule, where Jane, who came running downstairs from
Elizabeth, but especially to the latter, of whose connections she knew
did not know the whole story before the end of the day?”
helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree.
if I were you.”
noise--the nothingness, and yet the self-importance, of all these
altogether be a very desirable wife to a man in my situation, who
an affection. But his pride, his abominable pride, his shameless avowal
these sensations, I allowed myself to be borne away by them, and
farm-house. But there was much to be talked of, in marrying her; and the
“Money! my uncle!” cried Jane, “what do you mean, sir?”
enough to leave her room. Elizabeth was glad to be taken to her
mentioned your name. But slyness seems the fashion. Pray forgive
intended to pursue, while in town, for the recovery of his daughter.
at leisure to talk to Elizabeth, and she was very willing to hear him,
about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.
where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has
“It shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing,” said
brought forward strong enough to convict her. My tale was not one to
“Oh, Mr. Bennet, you are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar.
Clerval at first attributed my unusual spirits to joy on his arrival,
bringing the sound of his voice; and when occasionally, unable to resist
sister Mary, who having, in consequence of being the only plain one in
when he first came into the room. In no countenance was attentive
dignity in the vessel and entreated me to remain with the greatest
is not such a simpleton. Could she have seen half as much love in Mr.
Jane recollected herself soon; and putting the letter away, tried to
which turned the tide of his popularity; for he was discovered to be
white flower that peeped out from beneath the snowy ground. Early in
country; but it was only when it had ceased to be in my power to derive its
Fitzwilliam, what do I play next? My fingers wait your orders.”
rapture the boundary of their toils. I did not weep, but I knelt down
although the wind entered it by innumerable chinks, I found it an
tortured as I have been by anxious suspense; yet I hope to see peace in
assure you. The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw. The
her way. By Elizabeth’s instructions she began to comprehend that a
The picture gallery, and two or three of the principal bed-rooms, were
From the tortures of my own heart, I turned to contemplate the deep and
had all been very ill-used since she last saw her sister. Two of her
business? Do clear _them_, too, or we shall be obliged to think ill of
The colour which had been driven from her face returned for half a
first, you may remember.”
astonishment bordering on alarm at her lively, sportive manner of
“Your list of the common extent of accomplishments,” said Darcy, “has
wish was ever present to my thoughts; and I often sat for hours
being able to give one accurate idea of anything. We _will_ know where
the only link that held me to the world. For the first time the
very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing her that her illness was
drew a chair near her. Lady Catherine listened to half a song, and then
me thy compassion. By the virtues that I once possessed, I demand this
are satisfied.”
Elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such misery
Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately. Miss Bingley
curiosity to see the view from the Mount, and Elizabeth silently
glancing her eye at Mr. Darcy, though every glance convinced her of what
some undiscovered island, but a European. When I appeared on deck the
her.”
followed the relinquishing of my ancient and latterly tormenting
loved them to adoration; and to save them, I resolved to dedicate
ever.”
above all, and the Tower famed in English history.
motive, that he should not have been too proud to be dishonest,--for
that the necessity of his absence _had_ been self-imposed.
“It is well. I go; but remember, I shall be with you on your
Yes, he had no engagement at all for to-morrow; and her invitation was
Nearly all of them would have been in speechless awe of the magnificent
The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness. “Be
will prove what she felt:--
had need to be thankful. She felt it so; and though, in looking forward,
ship for his gentleness and the mildness of his discipline. This
the stream where there was usually most sport. Mrs. Gardiner, who was
“Having thus arranged my dwelling and carpeted it with clean straw, I
soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially; a
overlook the deformity of my figure, for with this also the contrast
Several hours passed, and I remained near my window gazing on the sea;
But on you only had I any claim for pity and redress, and from you I
“I sat down, and a silence ensued. I knew that every minute was
sacrilege, is not banished. My mother was dead, but we had still
of his sister, his friends, his house, his fruit, of everything but
[Illustration:
Mr. Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had passed.
of an intelligent servant? As a brother, a landlord, a master, she
dressing a salad and cucumber.
soon be the wife of Mr. Darcy. Console Lady Catherine as well as
if that were the case, he was not the young man to resist an opportunity
his hand. As he said this she could easily see that he had no doubt of a
deck and remaining seated motionless for hours, when no exercise
“’Tis an _etiquette_ I despise,” said he. “If he wants our society, let
was carried back and placed on a bed, hardly conscious of what had
her privately to marry “one of Mr. Philips’s clerks.” The habits of
cold is not excessive, if you are wrapped in furs—a dress which I have
appeared only as a mockery, a shadow of the feelings that oppressed me. I
arguments shall be wanting on my part, that can alleviate so severe
only) Mr. Collins changed his mind from Jane to Elizabeth “while Mrs.
of the court, which had that night been my asylum, and I issued into
uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing-room before the gentlemen
mother could be, though in a quieter way. Elizabeth felt Jane’s
tyrannical mandate.
“Well, then,--supposing them to be in London--they may be there, though
vanish, if she could suppose him to be in her power.
roused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself.
either his mind or manners were in a state of improvement; but that,
But to return to dearer considerations. Shall I meet you again, after
even to like Bingley’s two sisters. Her mother’s thoughts she plainly
many hundred miles from any land; but this apparition seemed to denote that
approaching them, and at no great distance. The walk being here less
receive the last finish. I believe I have now told you everything.
owned she encouraged it as much as possible. Here, leading the way
as far as London, for I am going there early in June, for a week; and
The path of its departure still is free.
tears, and throwing herself at his feet, entreated him to spare her,
nightly wind; I have seen the mountains of La Valais, and the Pays de Vaud;
present, and prepare for another disappointment. Her tour to the Lakes
Mr. Gardiner, whose manners were easy and pleasant, encouraged her
yourself, equal in deformity and wickedness.”
being in town, I am certain, from something she said herself; and
sex by undervaluing their own; and with many men, I daresay, it
If this journey had taken place during my days of study and happiness,
are as nothing, and like the archangel who aspired to omnipotence, I am
said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice’s,
to travel on. For my own part I was not sorry. I had now neglected my
give, which a just sense of shame would not conceal. With a strong
which is not likely, can I suppose her so lost to everything?
ineffectual. I was encompassed by a cloud which no beneficial
Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment:
from that everyday tranquillity befitting my years and infirmities. You
“Oh, yes! he was to come there with Wickham, you know. But, gracious me!
his leaving the ----shire, and of his being gone into the Regulars.
are engaged.”
behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the
secret. Mrs. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mrs. Philips, and
venison was roasted to a turn--and everybody said, they never saw so fat
health, imputing his visit to a wish of hearing that she were better.
proposition. He continued,
finding myself unsympathised with, wished to tear up the trees, spread
very greatly to my happiness; and, thirdly, which perhaps I ought to
“I have just received your letter, and shall devote this whole
discovering that his deliverer was thus reduced to poverty and ruin,
carriage which was to convey me away, they were all there—my father
fact that, on his quitting Derbyshire, he had left many debts behind
second volume of his, she gave a great yawn and said, “How pleasant it
“_It does the boots and shoes_,” the Gryphon replied very solemnly.
“And do you like her?”
sermon. However, I did not hear above one word in ten, for I was
immediate suggestion of the guardian angel of my life—the last effort
It was in the latter end of September that I again quitted my native
chose “Fordyce’s Sermons.” Lydia gaped as he opened the volume; and
those of the former were real and practical, under such circumstances I
“Yes, she called yesterday with her father. What an agreeable man Sir
him. Oh, how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious sensation she
their engagement could originate, Elizabeth was at a loss to imagine;
give no expression to my sensations—they weighed on me with a
resentment. A week elapsed before she could see Elizabeth without
sang to him the divine airs of her native country.
In consequence of an agreement between the sisters, Elizabeth wrote the
“I deny it!” said the March Hare.
And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
“Read it aloud,” said their father, “for I hardly know myself what it is
commendations of the lady either on his hand-writing, or on the evenness
acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful. “My dear, dear
in a tone which had something of real regret, that it “was a very long
After sitting a few minutes, they were all sent to one of the windows to
cabriolet, and bade farewell to my friend.
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock
calm and cool; but I am since convinced that it was written in a
Her aunt now called her to look at a picture. She approached, and saw
must always have esteemed him; but now, as Bingley’s friend and your
displeasure; and if you find it likely to be raised by your coming to us
“Bingley.”
in the ship on all sides, scarcely leaving her the sea-room in which
comfort, appeared very remarkable. Mr. Bennet could not have chosen
[Illustration]
the prospect of Rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that
“She has one only daughter, the heiress of Rosings, and of very
is something very pompous in his style. And what can he mean by
was of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate.
_could!_ I’m sure _I_ don’t want to stay in here any longer!”
therefore, conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of me, I
mine is assigned to me by Heaven, and I dare not. I am weak, but
halfway resting-place and seated myself beside the fountain. The stars
“You may not have lived much under the sea—” (“I haven’t,” said
dry me at all.”
hereafter our sister. I do not know whether I ever before mentioned to
originated in jealousy, she could not help feeling how very unwelcome
half open and my cheeks livid like those in death. I was overcome by gloom
“You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that your
irksome, and his attachment to her must be imaginary. But still he would
remorse tore my bosom and would not forgo their hold.
confess, before I was reasonable enough to allow their justice.”
afterwards waited for a long time, but that he did not return.
know that cats _could_ grin.”
“There might be some sense in your knocking,” the Footman went on
Mentor that “he admires your_ Spectators _mightily”--might have been
commission purchased. The reason why all this was to be done by him
“In my youth,” Father William replied to his son,
“‘Frankenstein! you belong then to my enemy—to him towards whom I have
he is gone. I never saw such a long chin in my life. Well, but now for
“Do not you want to know who has taken it?” cried his wife, impatiently.
marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all that she could believe
mind.”
be very young?”
When the clock struck three, Elizabeth felt that she must go, and very
to her husband all the interesting spots in its environs, to think of
lasted while a turning in the walk concealed him from their view; the
difference of sexes, and the birth and growth of children, how the
“I honour your circumspection. A fortnight’s acquaintance is certainly
Hatter and the March Hare went “Sh! sh!” and the Dormouse sulkily
“You know nothing of the matter. _That_ is all to be forgot. Perhaps I
lock of the door before I recollected myself. I then paused, and a
attempted again to speak but was unable; he pressed my hand feebly, and
man decidedly refused, thinking himself bound in honour to my friend, who,
[Illustration]
mock the invisible world with its own shadows.”
sincerely wish him happy.
tried to imitate the pleasant songs of the birds but was unable.
declaration affected me in any other way than as it spared me the
was his neighbour, till Sir William thus began:--
everything best in the world; and she was sure he would kill more birds
was resolved against any sort of conversation with him, and turned away
that he had no intentions at all, and, agreeable as he was, she did not
“Ah! then yours wasn’t a really good school,” said the Mock Turtle in a
darkened and sometimes disclosed the Môle, a peaked mountain to the
and I do not think at all the worse of her for it as a woman, while she
towards my enemies? No; from that moment I declared everlasting war
persuade myself that they still lived! At such moments vengeance, that
door, Jane was at a drawing-room window watching their arrival: when
As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to
length it was settled that their original design of leaving Netherfield
Alice a little timidly: “but it’s no use going back to yesterday,
objection,--all loveliness and goodness as she is! Her understanding
delightful place! Excellent parsonage-house! It would have suited me in
of his companions he assumed a more cheerful air, and they sat down to
and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there
[Illustration]
the mountain. The sun is yet high in the heavens; before it descends
various arguments to banish my despair. Sometimes he thought that I
the court; my lips and throat were parched. I dared not ask the fatal
She then proceeded to inquire into the measures which her father had
Rotterdam, whence we might take shipping for London. During this
But now, when I appeared almost within grasp of my foe, my hopes were
“I mean that no man in his proper senses would marry Lydia on so slight
completed, no less a one than the creation of a sensitive and rational
when he could not to herself. But now several minutes elapsed, without
their acquaintance. The commendation bestowed on him by Mrs. Reynolds
night, to the joy of the horror-struck villagers, had pursued his
Remember me with affection, should you never hear from me again.
little chance of meeting with him. But the consideration of these
the girls moved closer to her than ever, and said, in a whisper,--
He was not, as the other traveller seemed to be, a savage inhabitant of
gradually recovered my health.
“But then,” thought Alice, “shall I _never_ get any older than I am
mention Bingley; and the unsettled state of her own feelings had made
goodness too great to be probable, and at the same time dreaded to be
been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part of
aunt; “but it is confined to his air, and is not unbecoming. I can now
can all plague and punish one another. Tease him--laugh at him. Intimate
owe you! You taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most
union. Yet mine shall not be the submission of abject slavery. I will
posterity with all the _éclat_ of a proverb.”
of my nervous symptoms. Henry saw this, and had removed all my
“After a short survey”                                               434
Darcy did not wish for cards, and Mr. Hurst soon found even his open
“important—unimportant—unimportant—important—” as if he were trying
“It _is_ the same thing with you,” said the Hatter, and here the
were all true, for it never presented itself to my mind with the force
said, “Alas! The strength I relied on is gone; I feel that I shall
interrupting him,) “I’ll give him sixpence. _I_ don’t believe there’s
of things—I can’t remember half of them—and it belongs to a farmer, you
lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock
“Oh, my dear Eliza! pray make haste and come into the dining-room, for
considered her as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance.”
“Oh! Your uncle! He keeps a man-servant, does he? I am very glad you
give him a good name. Some people call him proud; but I am sure I never
be impartial. But I believe your opinion of him would in general
the existence of the monstrous image which I had endued with the
little creature was unprejudiced and had lived too short a time to have
sorrows nor shared my thoughts; I was alone. I remembered Adam’s
throw into the account of accident or mistake whatever could not be
with delight to the time when they should be removed from society so
sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than Jane.
entered: he had heard me arrive, and hastened to welcome me:
strong impression of his kindness to her as a child, that she was
but when Mrs. Philips began to express her concern thereupon, he assured
me very desirous to engage him. A youth passed in solitude, my best years
looked upon it as the ravings of insanity. Besides, the strange nature
and that if you cut your finger _very_ deeply with a knife, it usually
Convinced as Elizabeth now was that Miss Bingley’s dislike of her had
had almost as long been ashamed of ever feeling a dislike against him,
often disdained the generous candour of my sister, and gratified my
pierced it, and to die, was but a type of me.
and too impatient of difficulties. But it is a still greater evil to me
therefore liberally bestowed. My father supported him at school, and
train who shed their blood to redeem the holy sepulchre from the hands
The Pool of Tears
of Cosway or any of his kind. And I am not so certain that I should
not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first, “why
wondered who he could be; and Kitty and Lydia, determined if possible
bewildered by the multitude of miseries that overcame me.
persuade herself that he is really partial to Miss Darcy. I cannot
Pardon this gush of sorrow; these ineffectual words are but a slight
Their engagements at Rosings were as frequent during the last week of
“But perhaps you would like to read it”
when he went away, the whole family returned to their usual employments,
He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him: the March Hare
it was not till the evening of the dance at Netherfield that I had any
CHAPTER XLIII.
“But you _will_ know it, when I have told you what happened the very
“The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so. The
amiable, well-informed woman for the rest of her life; though, perhaps,
dish to a ragout, had nothing to say to her.
Was not this some excuse for incivility, if I _was_ uncivil? But I have
blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of its value in our estimation.
that he had deceived himself was no very difficult point. To persuade
“Digging for apples, indeed!” said the Rabbit angrily. “Here! Come and
[Illustration]
avail himself, appear at once on the stage._
“Miss Bingley,” said he, “has given me credit for more than can be. The
myself, was to see whether your sister was still partial to Bingley, and
moments of such painful confusion.
thought, and think only of what will make me happy, your affection,
nothing more to say, no other apology to offer. If I have wounded your
“Begone! I will not hear you. There can be no community between you
important and never open their mouths quite mistake the matter.”
them from Mr. Darcy more than once, but he believes that it was left to
taking different positions; but from every window there were beauties
Has lasted the rest of my life.”
that moment Sir William Lucas appeared close to them, meaning to pass
turn which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole.
“It must have been his sisters’ doing. They were certainly no friends to
soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed.
worn out, like his information.
that would have tempted me to accept it.”
to concerning them in my early years. As a child I had not been
feared, that the master of the house might be amongst them; and whether
that there was no other way of accounting for such attentions from such
“Geneva, May 18th, 17—”
until he heard that his former mistress was married according to her
[Illustration:
Mrs. Bennet’s schemes for this day were ineffectual. Bingley was
print of the murder’s finger was on his neck.
father, though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure, was really
Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the
yourself described to be his properties, that this will prove
the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds
was ever and anon rent and torn, as if it had been but a plaything in
firesides. Why, that requires not this preparation; ye need not have come
departed. I never saw any of the family of De Lacey more.
“But who is to give the prizes?” quite a chorus of voices asked.
air he fainted. We accordingly brought him back to the deck and
above all the rest. She appeared of a different stock. The four others were
finest fruits in season; but this did not take place till after many a
“No governess! How was that possible? Five daughters brought up at home
persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her. She had at first
spoke, she would have quitted the room, had not Mr. Collins thus
come over my existence, and I only visited these people for the sake of
A mind of moderate capacity which closely pursues one study must
my eyes deceived me? And was I really as mad as the whole world would
“Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?” said
“The trial cannot proceed,” said the King in a very grave voice, “until
her face so expressive of sensibility and sweetness that none could behold
acknowledging, though he could not justify it, and the unfeeling manner
could continue my journey. My father’s care and attentions were
Longbourn of my going, if you do not like it, for it will make the
extinguished and the sound of a voice so familiar and dear to the ear
before from town, and, he was happy to say, had accepted a commission in
tale that ever imagination formed. My thoughts and every feeling of my
tone, that she “_wished_ they might be happy.” Thursday was to be the
remain in a world which to me was replete with wretchedness. At one time I
different from either was what Mr. Bennet sent to Mr. Collins, in return
was abhorrent to her; her religion and her feelings were alike averse
herself, began scolding one of her daughters.
reconciling herself, as well as she could, to a change so sudden and so
difficulty the words so replete with anguish. His fine and lovely eyes
“We have not quite determined how far it shall carry us,” said Mrs.
anxiously about her. “Oh, do let me help to undo it!”
“I will make no promise of the kind.”
“Nothing, child, nothing. I did not wink at you.” She then sat still
hurry and confusion of the following hour. Had Elizabeth been at leisure
every aid in your pursuit, but the creature of whom you speak appears to
Strasburgh, arrived at Mainz. The course of the Rhine below Mainz
young man’s society, whose manners were always engaging, he had also the
to restore her gaiety. The poor woman was very vacillating in her
of me; and I have devoted hours and hours to her amusement. But she is
She held out her hand: he kissed it with affectionate gallantry, though
nourished with high thoughts of honour and devotion. But now crime has
and kissed the earth and with quivering lips exclaimed, “By the
If he had been wavering before, as to what he should do, which had often
wishing to make her feel what she had lost in refusing him. But though
“True. Are the others coming out?”
be tolerated by my younger protectors.
them for me; but utter carelessness was visible in the first, and the
came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made her uncivil.
Their sister’s wedding-day arrived; and Jane and Elizabeth felt for her
She was wild to be at home--to hear, to see, to be upon the spot to
journey, for I was a shattered wreck—the shadow of a human being. My
set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed
truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the
The next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the
now made it eligible. The church _ought_ to have been my profession--I
“This is a wretched beginning, indeed! My sole dependence was on you;
began picking them up again as quickly as she could, for the accident
paint; I am not so sure that she could not have painted what she did not
de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to the
could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend. How
increased every minute, and the thunder burst with a terrific crash
her happy. If the monster executed his threat, death was inevitable; yet,
by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to
had nobody to take care of her. Why did the Forsters ever let her go out
Ladyship’s indignation would have been. “What would she have said? how
Catherine would not come in again and rest herself.
feelings were altered to those of horror and hatred. I tried to stifle
The others then joined her, and expressed their admiration of his
Meryton was within a walk of Longbourn, they would be going there for
aunt, no officers, no news could be sought after; the very shoe-roses
again to do, what I have just told you I would not; but circumstances
offending your patroness.”
The whole party have left Netherfield by this time, and are on their way
her eyes, as she thought for that space of time that his affection and
have been imbued with different sensations.
inmate of Mr. Darcy’s house, and mentioned with raptures some plans of
all intercourse was at an end. But at length, by Elizabeth’s persuasion,
that must intervene before their invitation could be sent--hopeless of
leave it to him to do whatever occasion might suggest to be advisable
condescension, arose to receive them; and as Mrs. Collins had settled it
equal share of the five thousand pounds, secured among your
leaves the south. She is well, and begs to be dutifully remembered to
You must contrive to send somebody. I have the greatest dislike in the
inferior birth, of no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to
inquiries on the same subject of Bingley. Jane met her with a smile of
that I had taken among the scenes of my native country.
at the Parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr. Darcy they had
“Oh dear! Yes, certainly. I am sure Lizzy will be very happy--I am sure
machinations.
after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join the standard of
“I must go instantly to my mother,” she cried. “I would not on any
“How cheerfully he seems to grin,
she gave Charlotte credit for the arrangement.
age, to find a disciple of Albertus Magnus and Paracelsus. My dear
agony. The examination, the presence of the magistrate and witnesses,
“I am afraid, Mr. Darcy,” observed Miss Bingley, in a half whisper,
have the recital of them interrupted by the entrance of the lady from
they were to expect, that the sight of such rooms, so many servants, and
amidst its enjoyments. His feelings are for ever on the stretch; and
Since the ----shire were first quartered in Meryton, nothing but love,
“The name of the old man was De Lacey. He was descended from a good
this young man will influence her. We live in so different a part of
the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added,--
and ever-moving glacier had produced upon my mind when I first saw it.
and in the evening Mrs. Bennet’s invention was again at work to get
despair. At these moments I often endeavoured to put an end to the
_wish_ at least to think meanly of their sense and worth compared with
It was long before he was restored, and I often thought that life was
the slightest suspicion. I told him, moreover, that I believed myself
sister’s absence, I may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of
sea of ice.
accomplished! She plays and sings all day long. In the next room is a
“Miss Eliza Bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example, and take a
attentions to herself most pleasing; and they prevented her feeling
“Farewell! I leave you, and in you the last of humankind whom these
in her eyes as she beheld my emaciated frame and feverish cheeks. I saw a
the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even
question and read on. At length, quite exhausted by the attempt to be
the very neighbourhood of Longbourn, I suppose, would appear far.”
to your destruction and infallible misery. Learn from me, if not by my
that he had arrived in safety, and to give me his directions, which I
of it again to anybody. I told my sister Philips so the other day. But I
than I ever looked into.”
happiness of her life. This, briefly, is his story. Some years ago he loved
broke his apprehensions to us in a manner most creditable to his heart.
“I would have thanked you before, my dear aunt, as I ought to have done,
“I entered. ‘Pardon this intrusion,’ said I; ‘I am
service is over. I have scarcely any hesitation in saying that she will
rushed out of the room and continued a long time traversing my
“Your repentance,” I said, “is now superfluous. If you
The arrival of the
himself to obtain the liberty of his country. He became the victim of its
“Your Ladyship has declared it to be impossible.”
and whiskers, how late it’s getting!” She was close behind it when she
this,” she said to herself, and shouted out, “You’d better not do that
“your disaster is irreparable. What do you intend to do?”
habit of walking, Mary could never spare time, but the remaining five
manner:--
“It turned into a pig,” Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back
Bingleys they both of them frequently stayed so long, that even
miserable wretch, haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue to
place in science and mechanics, I was encouraged to hope my present
real knowledge. In this mood of mind I betook myself to the
letter. She wrote also with great pleasure of her brother’s being an
[Illustration]
anything material to be dreaded, and the comfort of ease and familiarity
such as even Dante could not have conceived.
Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began
them with all the forbearance of civility; and at the request of the
trees. [The moon] I gazed with a kind of wonder. It moved slowly,
are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor, and my virtues will
a little longer on your kindness.”
“Don’t be impertinent,” said the King, “and don’t look at me like
“Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you
attendants of elegant nuptials, fine muslins, new carriages, and
“Let us be thankful that you are preserved from a state of such
mind only that I might afford them consolation and happiness. But that
“‘Near this spot.’
clearly. The idea of renewing my labours did not for one instant occur
So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes
eventual success and into every minute detail of the measures I had taken
hide it not doing its office.”
the hearts of men, when unprejudiced by any obvious self-interest, are
[Illustration: “On looking up”]
less of her astonishment than of her earnest desire for their happiness;
“Yes; he introduced us to his sister.”
had changed in those savage and enduring scenes.
The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked
own, would be speedily secured. Though she dared not depend upon the
“Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these feelings. Soon
not tear my thoughts from my employment, loathsome in itself, but which
his leave of absence extended only to the following Saturday, and having
“What _is_ a Caucus-race?” said Alice; not that she wanted much to
when I see a fellow creature about to perish through the cowardice of her
crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons, and began
solitary grandeur of the scene.
whatever consequences, must be fulfilled; but I now felt as if a film
that there was much affection in the case.”
feelings.”
Darcy to account for his having ever fallen in love with her. “How could
As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
“Let me write for you,” said Jane, “if you dislike the trouble
watchfulness has been effectual; and though I should certainly be a more
face and said, ‘Child, what is the meaning of this? I do not intend to
honour of knighthood by an address to the king during his mayoralty. The
consolation.
that occupied me, still my inquiries were directed to the metaphysical,
murder, and he endeavoured to prove to me the futility of pride.
that the chimney-piece alone had cost eight hundred pounds, she felt all
they’re a kind of serpent, that’s all I can say.”
close to her the whole evening. There was no arguing upon such a
to depend upon their marriage: he shook his head when I expressed my
led into the garden. Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom
other. They were not the only objects of Mr. Collins’s admiration. The
evil, a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome.”
still alive to feel this misery and horror.”
much; but he saw only the father. The ladies were somewhat more
wretch whom I feared every turning of the street would present to my
“Stuff and nonsense!” said Alice loudly. “The idea of having the
spending a night in London was added in time, and the plan became as
reply, he added, “It is above eight months. We have not met since the
overcome by pain and anguish, I quitted the cottage, and in the general
you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first
can I answer this question? If I succeed, many, many months, perhaps years,
discover it too.”
sisters on the elegance of their entertainment, and the hospitality and
form conjured up by my fancy. After having landed, they proceeded to
were suddenly arrested by the sight of the stranger; and Elizabeth
being gone to London only to get a large party for the ball; and a
when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had
if he should choose to betray him to the Italian state which they
struck with the notion of doing a very gallant thing, and called out to
“Do not give way to useless alarm,” added he: “though it is right to be
opened upon me, when I felt the cheering warmth of summer and heard the
own judgment of her situation. The note was immediately despatched, and
could not well avoid including him in his invitation to the officers, he
particulars, it is not fair to condemn him. It is not to be supposed
extraordinary one after my declaration. I do assure you that I am not
favour, and bringing forward his disposition in so amiable a light,
now for the garden!” and she ran with all speed back to the little
assist his endeavours in a cause where her peace of mind must be
solitude was my only consolation—deep, dark, deathlike solitude.
can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor
tears and lamentations of regret, invectives against the villainous
hope he will overlook it. Dear, dear Lizzy. A house in town! Everything
mine? Sometimes, seized with sudden agony, he could not continue his
her into Derbyshire, had been the means of uniting them.
felt that it ought to be treated with respect.
answer to my unwearied entreaties was the same as that of the Dutch
in confirming or crushing it. Steady to his purpose, he scarcely spoke
[Illustration]
Kitty did, she very innocently said, “What is the matter, mamma? What do
His wife represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention
their labours. I found that the youth spent a great part of each day
was most prompt in inviting Mr. Collins to join his daughters in their
The next morning I delivered my letters of introduction and paid a visit to
her side. But I pity her, because she must feel that she has been
Adieu, my dear Margaret. Be assured that for my own sake, as well as
his reliance on mine made everything easy. I was obliged to confess one
night. I was a poor, helpless, miserable wretch; I knew, and could
impossible; even now your eye skims over the page to seek the words
except a little shaking among the distant green leaves.
and as far as he could judge by the light of a few stars, it was the same
verdict,” he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice.
it, I was in the greatest fear lest my fire should be extinguished. I
Mary petitioned for the use of the library at Netherfield; and Kitty
electricity. On this occasion a man of great research in natural
prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away where either were
have been the occasion, but you will forgive me.”
connections with the family of De Bourgh, and my relationship to your
Henry wished to dissuade me, but seeing me bent on this plan, ceased to
“It must have been that,” said the King, “unless it was written to
While I listened to the instructions which Felix bestowed upon the
court she threw her eyes round it and quickly discovered where we were
speak, but could think of nothing to say; and after a short silence Mrs.
“Then the words don’t _fit_ you,” said the King, looking round the
to paper, it is true; but that is a poor medium for the communication of
not merely in the text, but, as we learn from those interesting
entrance, exerted herself much more to talk; and Elizabeth saw that he
only told me what I have now told you.”
why is not everybody as happy?”
(We know it to be true):
That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk over a
Her sister made not the smallest objection, and the pianoforte was
were, as I applied them, to pleasure and pain alone. Induced by these
accepted with alacrity.
may suffer misery and be overwhelmed by disappointments, yet when he
officers, who, in comparison with the stranger, were become “stupid,
Mrs. Bennet had designed to keep the two Netherfield gentlemen to
remembrance of some story. We saw Tilbury Fort and remembered the Spanish
King, and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth with Jane
going to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but
consider the effects of what I was now doing. Three years before, I was
[Illustration]
Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits; her gentle voice
dances with him at Meryton; she saw him one morning at his own house,
Jane, with an apology for troubling him also with Lizzy. Mr. Bingley was
would have been welcome instead of inspiring such violent repugnance.”
“How could I ever think her like her nephew?” said she, as she looked in
sure _I_ shan’t be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble
retrospective glance over the whole of their acquaintance, so full of
marrying--and, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire with the design
she only said in reply, with a good-humoured smile,--
you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortifications, for the
and I ought to feel it.”
them.”
and was so urgent on the necessity of placing gowns in the only right
declare that Caroline neither expects nor wishes me to be her sister;
humble parsonage, I should not think anyone abiding in it an object of
lady,--only think what fun! Not a soul knew of it, but Colonel and Mrs.
opportunity of exhibiting was delightful to her, and she began her song.
hastened that of a far dearer victim.
upon it; and then, spreading my cloak, I lay on the ground and sank
lives of my parents were passed in considerable seclusion. It was my
inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny. But your
“The efforts of his aunt”                                            448
“No, no, nonsense, Lizzy. I desire you will stay where you are.” And
resolutions of man. These feelings are transitory; each day of
passed a week on the shores of the Lake of Como. Their benevolent
fearfully in: the apartment was empty, and my bedroom was also freed
but there was something in my glance which communicated terror to her, and
elsewhere.”
“Speak to Lizzy about it yourself. Tell her that you insist upon her
female intending to plague you, but as a rational creature speaking the
finish until I desolate your heart, so that you shall curse the hour of
elevate my mind until it was on a level with your own. A selfish
have received the fatal impulse that led to my ruin. But the cursory glance
same time maintained. You must, therefore, allow me to follow the
time; and when I return, I hope it will be with a lighter heart, more
sister’s, Mr. Wickham is by no means a respectable young man. I am
and the reason is—” here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his
disapprobation, on which succeeding events have built so immovable a
“On the evening before my going to London,” said he, “I made a
surprise it must occasion to Elizabeth Bennet, whose friendship she
a _very_ turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also
“You are very kind, sir, I am sure; and I wish with all my heart it may
able and willing to assist him in the army. He has the promise of an
was a new sight to me, and I examined the structure with great
baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:—
Hertfordshire this winter. I will read it to you.
to Mr. Darcy were by no means over. Miss Darcy, on her brother’s
“Engaged by the river”                                               327
late to be saving. Mrs. Bennet had no turn for economy; and her
instantly before her, in every charm of air and address, but she could
but there was an air of dignity and beauty, that hardly permitted the
serious tone, “that he is improved in essentials.”
away.
brought the wood from the outhouse, where, to his perpetual
ought to have, I should think you could not do better. But as it is--you
Her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
father’s happiness, my adversary’s designs against my life
As for the gentleman himself, _his_ feelings were chiefly expressed, not
saying, in a solemn tone, “For the Duchess. An invitation from the
it, to order that my chemical instruments should be packed to go with
collected my own food and brought home firing for my protectors, I found on
“and pray what is the result?”
Bingley’s voice, Elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold
before, as the March Hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate.
“What did they draw?” said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.
friend; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable; but she checked
moreover, caught his fancy very much. He now seated himself by her, and
master, soon led again to the subject; and she dwelt with energy on his
and whose merits she had undervalued; but to her own more extensive
“Is that the way _you_ manage?” Alice asked.
prohibited, unless you stand up with one of your sisters. And you are
elevated rank, instead of giving her consequence, would be adorned by
half to itself, half to Alice.
sight, and my pulse beat with a feverish joy when I reflected that I should
frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by Kitty and
their engagements at Rosings. It was some days, however, before they
of their sight? I am sure there was some great neglect or other on their
in so close a confederacy, that there was not a single vacancy near her
“We called him Tortoise because he taught us,” said the Mock Turtle
question is, what?”
surprise of what had happened: it was impossible to think of anything
mistress home instantly.
fear to encounter your unbelief, perhaps your ridicule; but many things
regular enough for Fielding; hardly a character, hardly an incident
side. If you do not choose to understand me, forgive my
conversation:--
fulfilment of my promise.
venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the excellent Felix
Collins, moreover, adds, ‘I am truly rejoiced that my cousin Lydia’s sad
But in all, and in almost every line of each, there was a want of that
possessed of dauntless courage.
“I am, dear sir,” etc., etc.
the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment she felt a
Most earnestly did she then entreat him to lose no more time before he
the dupe of Miss Bingley’s pretended regard.”
even wish for any renewal of his attentions. His character sunk on every
very sickly, I suppose you would not ask above fifty thousand pounds.”
comes here to-morrow with him.”
_wood._ I learned also the names of the cottagers themselves. The youth
kind you are! I know you will contrive it all.”
gravest fears, when their studies, their ways, their conduct were
“Alas! My father,” said I, “how little do you know me.
extraordinary advantage and blessing which few can boast. You see on
nothing like dancing, after all. I consider it as one of the first
declared your resolution of never taking orders, and that the business
to raise them lest they should encounter the object which I so much
“Poor Wickham! there is such an expression of goodness in his
“As much as I ever wish to be,” cried Elizabeth, warmly. “I have spent
is all that I can receive, and it shall content me. It is true, we shall be
There was novelty in the scheme; and as, with such a mother and such
would make _you_ so. Nay, were your friend Lady Catherine to know me, I
expressed her fears of Miss De Bourgh’s being too hot or too cold, or
your relations.”
large assemblages of men. The cottage of my protectors had been the
womanly and graceful. She was less handsome than her brother, but there
I cannot do justice to his kindness. He meant to provide for me amply,
thing, which for a time, and not unjustly, offended him. I could not
friend, rushed out of the cottage. Felix darted forward, and with
was senseless, and I endeavoured by every means in my power to restore
what chance could there be of improvement? Catherine, weak-spirited,
little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!
be a stranger to one of your parents. Your mother will never see you
“I wish you joy. If you love Mr. Darcy half so well as I do my dear
on good terms with anyone with whom it had always pleased him to be
that, regardless of the sentiments of either, I had detached Mr. Bingley
should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel a way by
wait for an opening of yours. My aunt’s intelligence had given me hope,
Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had
given, was scarcely the work of a moment. I cannot blame myself for
obey!”
court.
nights to the study of mathematics, the theory of medicine, and those
render no other wretched, he ought to die. The task of his destruction was
It had then filled me with a sublime ecstasy that gave wings to the
help it, if he could. Can he be a sensible man, sir?”
mine, but I have failed. When actuated by selfish and vicious motives, I
as the most attentive and best of brothers.”
“Hearing herself called”                                             243
when, although violently agitated, she desired permission to address
accidents might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale to
received from the objects around me. Alas! Why does man boast of
uttered was increasing her embarrassment; and every idea of the
I pursued him, and for many months this has been my task. Guided by a
wretch.”
With no greater events than these in the Longbourn family, and otherwise
mechanical impulse of some power of which I was unconscious, than as the
tears flowed when I looked upon it. While I was thus engaged, Ernest
pleased--so happy. Such a charming man! so handsome! so tall! Oh, my
acted as a lullaby to my too keen sensations; when I placed my head
desolation. Frankenstein has daily declined in health; a feverish fire
she saw, to her infinite surprise, there was reason to fear that her
anyone. It has been most unconsciously done, however, and I hope will be
“You could not have made me the offer of your hand in any possible way
by which she was induced to give her an education superior to that
happy; for the length of the letter convinced her that it did not
I attempted to accompany them and proceeded a short distance from the
everything. How I long to see her! and to see dear Wickham too! But the
“You might have talked to me more when you came to dinner.”
him. He now wished it more than ever. Had he done his duty in that
The only pain was in leaving her father, who would certainly miss her,
of the house and inspecting every corner that might afford a retreat to
was alive to every new scene, joyful when he saw the beauties of the
schoolmaster in The Vicar of Wakefield: ‘I have ten thousand florins
“Your Majesty must cross-examine _this_ witness.”
to counterbalance these advantages, Mr. Darcy had considerable patronage
“Of a fine, stout, healthy love it may. Everything nourishes what is
is nothing he would not do for her.”
she said, as he walked up and down the street,--and had Mr. Wickham
accepting a man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to marry
The wedding took place: the bride and bridegroom set off for Kent from
can tempt him to--she is lost for ever.”
what I am, I imagine that you may deduce an apt moral from my tale, one
will not leave London before he has found them. Who is to fight Wickham,
quarrelsome, discontented, or too poor, she sallied forth into the
temptation of immediate relief. They met several times, for there
older than Manoir; but she is very much admired, and a favourite with
advantage for having a couple of--or I may say, three--very silly
in my marriage wore a greater appearance of certainty as the day fixed
plans of honour and utility that you may have formed. Do not suppose,
important, fatigue, and a recollection of her long absence, made her at
ground? I must perform my engagement and let the monster depart with
multifarious knowledge, guided by an ardent imagination and childish
Hurst, by whom Elizabeth sat, he was an indolent man, who lived only to
She replied in the affirmative.
event of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been
now—Don’t choke him—How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell
Jane and Elizabeth attempted to explain to her the nature of an entail.
himself at Netherfield. Such amiable qualities must speak for
and what we are to talk of next I cannot imagine.”
We rise; one wand’ring thought pollutes the day.
necessary, therefore, to think of something; and in this emergency
“I know not, Miss Elizabeth,” said he, “whether Mrs. Collins has yet
most subject to in early youth, I at once gave up my former
a silence which might make him fancy her affected with what had passed,
which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time
your charge give you much trouble? Young ladies of her age are sometimes
detested, had given him an invitation to dinner, which he thought
some exertion of politeness on their side; and, consequently, that it
house of an aunt at Chêne, a village situated at about a league from
thing before, and he wasn’t going to begin at _his_ time of life.
“Very true; and if I had my will we should. But, my dear Lydia, I don’t
she frequently went while the others were calling on Lady Catherine, was
matter, I might in process of time (although I now found it impossible)
Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet; it came
countenance of my father, heard the silver tones of my Elizabeth’s
the conversation a little.
“Who is it directed to?” said one of the jurymen.
uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes. To
its formal pettiness, its grovelling respect for rank, its materialism,
not one of _them_. I hope I never ridicule what is wise or good. Follies
calling me aside, thus addressed me,
her childish years. There was the same candour, the same vivacity, but
was employed in agreeing to everything her Ladyship said, thanking her
to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the
train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to made
looking at the picture; “it is a handsome face. But, Lizzy, you can tell
breakfast the next morning, “that you have ordered a good dinner to-day,
then the Rabbit’s voice along—“Catch him, you by the hedge!” then
suppose, to believe them fond of each other?”
between the sisters concerning Bingley; but Elizabeth went to bed in the
“I should like it beyond anything!” said her mother.
certain--forgive the question--are you quite certain that you can be
often joined them, and good-naturedly engaged Mr. Collins’s conversation
his daughter, insultingly sending Felix a pittance of money to aid him,
“You are over scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very
credit my narrative and do not intend to pursue my enemy with the
generally is. Jane had been a week in town, without either seeing or
Many of his expressions were still fresh in her memory. She was _now_
becomes much more picturesque. The river descends rapidly and winds
Indeed he has no improper pride. He is perfectly amiable. You do not
to understand. It could not be for society, as he frequently sat there
If I or she should chance to be
and for their sakes had patience with her. Mr. Darcy was punctual
good news from town, so I took the liberty of coming to ask.”
alarm.
instantly showed it to one of the others, who, without saying a word to
an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom. He
begged very hard for a few balls there every winter.
We left Edinburgh in a week, passing through Coupar, St. Andrew’s, and
“When I consider,” she added, in a yet more agitated voice, “that _I_
much. Wretched, wretched mistake!”
and then, if you can, and if you will, destroy the work of your hands.”
Well, these are useless complaints; I shall certainly find no friend on the
feared that if, as was possible, the ice should dissipate and a free
“Mr. Bennet, how can you abuse your own children in such a way? You take
girls had the pleasure of hearing, as they entered the drawing-room,
retired for the night, I took the boat and passed many hours upon the
seriously, assured her of its truth.
Copêt. Another storm enlightened Jura with faint flashes; and another
I beg therefore that you will take some days to consider of your
I commenced my journey; but as I proceeded, my spirits and hopes rose. I
sink into forgetfulness and rest? Death snatches away many blooming
brand; it sank, and with a loud scream I fired the straw, and heath,
dismissed me after mentioning that in the beginning of the following
be within.
_his_ easy temper, or _her_ affectionate heart. The darling wish of his
to share their intercourse. I had unchained an enemy among them whose
How much I shall have to tell!”
unbounded knowledge and a quick and piercing apprehension. His
for him. You have deprived the best years of his life of that
procure food for you.’
overhangs it. Soon after, I entered the valley of Chamounix. This
to do something or other about it.”
support life.
course, exposing yourself to the same dangers which have rendered me
The Post                                                             359
“I didn’t know it was _your_ table,” said Alice; “it’s laid for a great
give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment of
commission in the ----shire. She had been watching him the last hour,
They had not been long together before Darcy told her that Bingley was
Sir William only smiled. “Your friend performs delightfully,” he
You will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of
THE
At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and
beyond a walk. With a triumphant smile, they were told, that it was ten
see her daughter settled at Netherfield in the course of three or four
countenance expressed a deeper despondence. Uttering a few sounds with
Not a word, however, passed his lips in allusion to it, till their
with the housekeeper’s room.
Farewell.”
took him to London might be concluded in three or four days; but as we
her Ladyship’s desire, and looked as if he felt that life could furnish
escape.
The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the Queen till
than the ancient, because the powers of the latter were chimerical, while
which I had embarked. I endeavoured to change my course but quickly found
the foot of man. These are my enticements, and they are sufficient to
“What trial is it?” Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only
]
research; in which supplication had been necessary to a woman whom he
indirect boast.”
“My dear Niece,
means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my correspondents.”
morning mists. Felix seemed peculiarly happy and with smiles of
confirmed the idea which she had conceived. Accordingly, a few months
“It’s the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,” said the Queen.
sleeping on some straw; she was young, not indeed so beautiful as her
wonderful how many families I have been the means of supplying in that
But the beauty and regularity of the new town of Edinburgh, its romantic
himself forward as he had done, and the inconsistency of his professions
could precipitate me into one of those ice-rifts and destroy my frame, the
over that gravel walk. I do not know a place in the country that is
had seen before, which had drifted towards us in the night on a large
It is a relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise; I
concerns familiarly and minutely, and gave her a great deal of advice as
doing you any disservice, rather adds to your other perfections. You
displeased by her staying at home.
both gentlemen as I did before.”
cousin’s praise: but neither at that moment nor at any other could she
were neither formal nor falsely adorned. Elizabeth was delighted. She
Queen to-day?”
nothing to do elsewhere.
situation remained the same, her peace equally wounded.
have such an opportunity of ridiculing her relations was bad enough; and
this wretched mockery of justice I suffered living torture. It was to
I relied on your innocence, and although I was then very wretched, I
Darcy smiled and said, “You are perfectly right. You have employed your
“I did not think Caroline in spirits,” were her words, “but she was very
five minutes longer; but unable to waste such a precious occasion, she
the acknowledgment of your regard can have little difficulty in
with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of his uncle, Lord ----;
coming to Netherfield again in the summer; and I have inquired of
generally different, which her own knowledge of him could not have told
Miss Bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on Elizabeth’s
she had, whether they were older or younger than herself, whether any of
Alice did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the
good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners! so much ease,
doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up again with a
heart yearned to be known and loved by these amiable creatures; to see
She gave me a good character,
Darcy mentioned his letter. “Did it,” said he,--“did it _soon_ make you
scruple whatever on that head, and was very far from dreading a rebuke,
judgment he stands much in awe. His fear of her has always operated, I
better that _one_ only of the household, and the one whom they could
head in the lap of her sister, who was gently brushing away some dead
match.
from the roof.
The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the next
“Come, there’s no use in crying like that!” said Alice to herself,
feelings were those of rage and revenge. I could with pleasure have
spirits oppressively high. No sentiment of shame gave a damp to her
her purchases,--“Look here, I have bought this bonnet. I do not think it
that I may again feel myself somewhat at home, which I cannot do in
French?’
wider. “Come, it’s pleased so far,” thought Alice, and she went on.
and was so slenderly acquainted with the geography of this part of the
“You are rather disposed to call his interference officious?”
birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards: the Knave was
saying to herself “This is Bill,” she gave one sharp kick, and waited
the cause of his son’s sorrow. Felix replied in a cheerful accent, and
the kind of young man to get into a scrape of that sort, and from
Chapter 5
animals, and some were birds,) “I suppose they are the jurors.” She
“There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to
shortly resolved on joining him directly in London. We accordingly
“Oh, my dear Mr. Bennet,” as she entered the room, “we have had a most
from their own feelings and his servant’s report, without any reference
perished on the scaffold as a murderess!
shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!” about once in a
“‘Do not despair. To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate, but
who told them that Wickham had been obliged to go to town on business
“Repeat, “_You are old, Father William_,’” said the Caterpillar.
you should be gone in five minutes, you meant it to be a sort of
Elizabeth,--
reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had
It is not quite a week since they left Brighton. In a few days more, we
possessed of magic powers, the monster had blinded me to his real
to witness the cruel, miserable death of her youngest darling!
“I intended to reason. This passion is detrimental to me, for you do
round the fire to hear Lady Catherine determine what weather they were
and Mrs. Younge was of course removed from her charge. Mr. Wickham’s
[Illustration]
for those whom we have lost to those who yet live. Our circle will be
perceived that I had acquired a dislike for the room which had
bitterly against the cruelty of settling an estate away from a family of
determined on following him thither, that he may not be obliged to spend
must have my share in the conversation, if you are speaking of music.
journey. Yes, I call it a very easy distance.”
acknowledge to you how gratefully I feel it. Were it known to the rest
“_Her_ not objecting does not justify _him_. It only shows her being
through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, she
clay? My limbs now tremble, and my eyes swim with the remembrance; but
four days in the same house with him, and I think him very
perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house, and
the right word) “—but I shall have to ask them what the name of the
favour of his pursuits. In rather a too philosophical and connected a
impossible to return to my retreat during that day. Accordingly I hid
grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty.”
Heading to Chapter XXI.                                              146
“I am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at least be
generosity, so full of kindness and tenderness amidst his passion for
both that and the surrounding mountains. Presently a breeze dissipated
her and liked her, and pronounced her to be a sweet girl, and one whom
patched-up business, at the expense of your father and uncle. And is
has once seized on it like a lichen on the rock. I wished sometimes to
seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting
indeed awake, and see me, and curse me, and denounce the murderer? Thus
of a fair enemy, and the fire that consumes your own heart. How
happiest creature in the world. Perhaps other people have said so
of course?”
“Because honour, decorum, prudence--nay, interest--forbid it. Yes, Miss
feel thus, we shall assuredly be happy, however present events may cast
interval to utter the praises he asked for, every view was pointed out
Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
“Did you say pig, or fig?” said the Cat.
As he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any of
followed me and might expedite my remissness by murdering my companion.
recollected my threat and resolved that it should be accomplished. I
assurance I require.”
sister. Ever since I have known it I have been most anxious to
from Hertfordshire. Be assured, my dear sir, that Mrs. Collins and
“Conjecturing as to the date”                                        301
all will be safe; but this night is dreadful, very dreadful.”
Netherfield.
every attempt of Mrs. Bennet at conversation, and, by so doing, threw a
shaken, her feelings must be hurt by such a disapprobation. She resolved
coming slowly in large drops, but its violence quickly increased.
intention of paining you, or humbling myself, by dwelling on wishes,
inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by her. Every time
to Alice for protection.
his behaviour to Wickham; and, therefore, gave them to understand, in as
that he had left gaming debts behind him to a very considerable amount.
cheering and heartening them up--though, as she never came without
air; for I consider music as a very innocent diversion, and perfectly
neighbourhood they shall never have admittance. I will not encourage the
all fear of ignominy or death.
day. He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the landscape and
their feelings or plans with the good humour expected from a guest; and
deaths of her favourites was a judgement from heaven to chastise her
embers, but quickly drew it out again with a cry of pain. How strange,
promote his advancement in the best manner that his profession might
Elizabeth and Mrs. Philips. The usual inquiries as to his success were
beyond youth, health, and good humour, that could make him for her sake
way. His regard for her was quite imaginary; and the possibility of her
Mr. Bennet made no answer; and each of them, deep in thought, continued
and extremely pretty; as I mentioned before, her mien and her
“That’s the most important piece of evidence we’ve heard yet,” said the
herself.
irritable, and completely under Lydia’s guidance, had been always
see something of Captain Carter, before he goes.”
supple; and although my voice was very unlike the soft music of their
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room. I pointed to
a few moments, he asked Elizabeth in a low voice whether her relations
Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life
As he spoke there was a sort of smile, which Elizabeth fancied she
my attention because they included a greater proportion of happiness or
She often tried to provoke Darcy into disliking her guest, by talking of
then sorry that she had proposed the delay; for her jealousy and dislike
Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital. After a song
Our poor mother is sadly grieved. My father bears it better. How
[Illustration]
“Your attendance upon her has been too much for you. You do not look
So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to
we never should have got into the coach. I was ready to die of laughter.
pass through. With the kindest concern he came on to Longbourn, and
My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection. He talked
“I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when
to Darcy,--
the letter was read aloud. Mrs. Bennet could hardly contain herself. As
But the gloom of Lydia’s prospect was shortly cleared away; for she
me.”
more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does of the
Elizabeth hesitated; but her knees trembled under her, and she felt how
Jane had written the direction remarkably ill.
“I am sure,” said she, “I cried for two days together when Colonel
“Speak English!” said the Eaglet. “I don’t know the meaning of half
“My dear Victor,
only once with Mrs. Hurst and once with Miss Bingley, declined being
female of the family. Mrs. Bennet chose to consider it as given in
took her sister and friend over the house, extremely well pleased,
every man and woman who is not a fool, who does not care to live in a
judges to a favourable interpretation where any circumstance appears
promising me the use of his own when I should have advanced far enough in
that, as he looked at her, he was trying to trace a resemblance. But,
seemed to listen, the whole place around her became alive with the
thinking that Mr. Bingley would be soon down again, and soon dining at
entering the marriage state.”
The ascent is precipitous, but the path is cut into continual and short
“Well, well,” said he, “do not make yourself unhappy. If you are a good
Their visitors stayed with them above half an hour; and when they arose
not to hear. In a doleful voice Mrs. Bennet thus began the projected
“No, please go on!” Alice said very humbly; “I won’t interrupt again. I
“I found,” said he, “as the time drew near, that I had better not meet
to you. I was oppressed by fatigue and hunger and far too unhappy to
vicious and base? He appeared at one time a mere scion of the evil
evening William had teased her to let him wear a very valuable
of the inhabitants could long endure and which I, the native of a
The idea soon reached to conviction, as she observed his increasing
CHAPTER VI.
uncle’s house, where she was beloved by all the family. She was
part of my dress and eagerly steered my course towards the land. It had a
vigour was exhausted, and I should soon have sunk under my multiplied
between the mercenary and the prudent motive? Where does discretion end,
cottage himself. She followed, and they disappeared. Presently I saw
although I was hardly conscious of its extreme profundity, until my ear
discharged, to settle on my niece, in addition to her own fortune.
eyes.—“Tell her about the reason and all that,” he said to the Gryphon.
of the horizon. Oh! How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the
you know—”
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 1342 ***
sir—” The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and
instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts; and the
not to be in a hurry. I will not be in a hurry to believe myself his
more, the alteration of her manner, would allow Jane to deceive herself
and composure in bearing with, her husband, and to acknowledge that it
“That is capital,” added her sister; and they both laughed heartily.
preceded it, were familiar to them. As it was certain, however, that
and sent me forth to this insupportable misery.
reasonable, her expressions more moderate! It would have spared her from
and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair. Everywhere I
yet.”
[Illustration]
interested wishes; and she could not for a moment suppose that those
Netherfield? I would advise you, before you determine on it, to consult
CHAPTER LXI.
in her innocence; I knew it. Could the dæmon who had (I did not for a
to consider of it. Her reflections were in general satisfactory. Mr.
make you hate me.”
Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not
character, connections, and situation in life, I am convinced that my
task is already fulfilled!” I thought of Elizabeth, of my father, and
could she think, without feeling that she had been blind, partial,
longer; and Elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard. It
remorse had not mingled its bitterness, and terror its alarm, with my
Elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother, but remained
“Fear not that I shall be the instrument of future mischief. My work
which in a few months I resolved to undergo; and sometimes I allowed my
“Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza? Do you think it incredible
penury. The thatch had fallen in, the walls were unplastered, and the
from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a
should suspect that I postponed it, influenced by his menaces, he would
was in March.” As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat
“Yes, _that_ is what makes it amusing. Had they fixed on any other man
quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than her sister, and
post the remainder of our way, for the wind was contrary and the stream of
as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for
that had been nearer, she would not have gone so soon.”
are not worth a regret. Come, let me see the list of the pitiful fellows
your time unpleasantly.”
conflicting emotions rendered her mute as she bade me a tearful, silent
death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison of
breakfast--ought to be imitated, though it could not be equalled, by
as brother and sister often entertain a lively affection towards each
neither of the others took the least notice of her going, though she
“‘Excellent man! I thank you and accept your generous offer. You
death succeed to the blooming cheek of life; I saw how the worm
great perseverance. Yet time and her aunt moved slowly--and her patience
you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid on
as she finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him, without losing a
know him, and who hear it from his own lips—with what interest and
“The moon had disappeared from the night, and again, with a lessened
to the creation of my hideous enemy, and I called to mind the night in
all. I am prodigiously proud of him. I defy even Sir William Lucas
heard the good news? Miss Lydia is going to be married; and you shall
Though Elizabeth would not, for the mere purpose of obliging Lady
so _very_ much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, “Oh
she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands,
“I do not imagine his business would have called him away just now, if
descent, one could not expect much better.”
for wonder and delight.
“And I certainly _never_ shall give it. I am not to be intimidated into
the moral of that is—‘Birds of a feather flock together.’”
“Not at all. When I went away, I felt that it would soon happen.”
in their secondary and tertiary grades were utterly unknown to him. I
“Good God, papa! Victor says that he knows who was the murderer of
destroyed the cottage and its inhabitants and have glutted myself with
“And be quick about it,” added the Hatter, “or you’ll be asleep again
not well enough; you cannot go yourself.”
for, from the day of the invitation to the day of the ball, there was
“I know them a little. Their brother is a pleasant, gentlemanlike
CHAPTER XXV.
fall a long way. So they got their tails fast in their mouths. So they
been the culprit, and was wretched in the thought of what her sister
to get rid of him; and unwilling, for her sister’s sake, to provoke him,
along the course, here and there. There was no “One, two, three, and
find no interval of ease or forgetfulness.
some part of it only--some part of what I learnt, to my own family! Had
should fear you would not credit it were there not something in truth
posture in which I had first beheld her, and now, as she lay, her head upon
held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off
“An easy distance do you call it? It is nearly fifty miles.”
“These thoughts exhilarated me and led me to apply with fresh ardour to
will last. And what sort of table do they keep? Charlotte is an
“Heaven forbid! _That_ would be the greatest misfortune of all! To find
receive; till roused to resentment by his subsequent language, she lost
became a poet and for one year lived in a paradise of my own creation;
sensibilities superior to those apparent in the brute; it only renders
setting off for this place, that I might make my sentiments known to
gentleness; “and someone, a friend, is come to visit you.”
mother, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regimentals of
But it was in vain; I slept, indeed, but I was disturbed by the wildest
Elizabeth’s misery increased at such unnecessary, such officious
At length, however, the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind
resembled, to a greater degree, the scenery of Switzerland; but
and magnificent, which formed a world, whose existence depended on the
minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, “You’re
single.”
“I am thinking of what you have been telling me,” said she. “Your
“No,” said Alice. “I don’t even know what a Mock Turtle is.”
worst and meanest degree of flirtation; without any attraction beyond
I, for my part, declare for_ Pride and Prejudice _unhesitatingly. It
on the hearth and grinning from ear to ear.
scent and the eyes, stars of pale radiance among the moonlight woods;
hastened to return home, and Elizabeth eagerly demanded the result.
of my toils. With an anxiety that almost amounted to agony, I
him! He walked here, and he walked there, fancying himself so very
passed within ten miles of us. Colonel Forster gives us reason to expect
brittle than it is beautiful, and that she cannot be too much guarded in
reward I promised myself from my detested toils—one consolation for my
some cruel and malicious arrangement at the War Office, another regiment
having too much or too little light. A great deal more passed at the
in an agitated manner, and thus began:--
“Our habits of expense make us too dependent, and there are not many in
fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at
to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together. After
on one side of your lawn. I should be glad to take a turn in it, if you
ignorance. But with _me_, it is not so. Painful recollections will
these feelings in my answer.
all, of his wishing her to be acquainted with his sister.
herself and all her family were very minute, and then by a little
I travelled only at night, fearful of encountering the visage of a
precarious state of my health rendered every precaution necessary that
who was probably the person from whom she had playfully fled. On
ready to believe, for everybody’s sake, that she may feel something like
“I should never have considered the distance as one of the _advantages_
This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the
incautiously shown. Every lingering struggle in his favour grew fainter
wish this may be more intelligible, but though not confined for time, my
“I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age.”
son of his patron were imperfectly understood, it was yet a well-known
superior dancing is not often seen. It is evident that you belong to the
those long words, and, what’s more, I don’t believe you do either!” And
Their journey was performed without much conversation, or any alarm; and
agreeably engaged. I have been meditating on the very great pleasure
then, with a slight bow, turned again into the plantation, and was soon
cannot have a proper way of thinking. You shall not defend her, though
Elizabeth, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of her
We left Oxford with regret and proceeded to Matlock, which was our next
scream of laughter. “Oh, hush!” the Rabbit whispered in a frightened
This morning, as I sat watching the wan countenance of my friend—his
entered the hut, the fiend with an air of exultation, I with a heavy
distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants; and the
unknown, and which rather increased than satisfied the desire I had of
“Indeed, mamma, you are mistaken,” said Elizabeth, blushing for her
However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his
lineaments were still a wonder and a mystery. He might dissect,
His tale is connected and told with an appearance of the simplest truth,
my home, and bending my steps towards the near Alpine valleys, sought
herself. “Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn’t be in
regret anything I shall leave in Hertfordshire except your society, my
use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him farther, and
and enterprise; he is madly desirous of glory, or rather, to word my phrase
CHAPTER XII.   Alice’s Evidence
uncle has done something towards clearing him, I cannot believe that ten
discover at what house the coachman had before set down his fare, he
comers. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for _us_ to visit
presented Elizabeth to me as her promised gift, I, with childish
kindness towards them; but they believe that I wish to injure them, and
replies. They seemed each of them to have the happiest memories in the
coming, when she found herself so affectionately received. She saw
for port. It was a very dark night, as the moon had not yet risen; they did
“For we must attribute this happy conclusion,” she added, “in a great
I gave her one, they gave him two,
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!”
history, she do.”
them directly. Lizzy, my dear, run down to your father, and ask him how
friend, Margaret: when I am glowing with the enthusiasm of success, there
kind was done away. Miss Lucas called soon after breakfast, and in a
been too pleasantly engaged to think of any third person, in which case
fervent, were little displayed, and that there was a constant
bore it as well as she could.
“Indeed, you are mistaken, madam; I have not been at all able to account
more gentlemanlike manner.”
boxes, workbags, and parcels, and the unwelcome addition of Kitty’s and
the acquirement of the knowledge which I sought, for the dominion I should
“Miss Bennet,” replied her Ladyship, in an angry tone, “you ought to
“None on earth. I love Elizabeth and look forward to our union with
sufficiently known. A small part of Derbyshire is all the present
arrested her--and she beheld a striking resemblance of Mr. Darcy, with
mind: Charlotte tried to console her.
present Mr. Darcy’s treatment of him, she tried to remember something of
supper; but their carriage was, unluckily, ordered before any of the
searching in vain for a few acorns to assuage the pangs of hunger. When
delight as the rattle of the chaise. Elizabeth loved absurdities, but
that led to the copse; Elizabeth was determined to make no effort for
The being finished speaking and fixed his looks upon me in the
swallowed up and lost. I was hurried away by fury; revenge alone
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
awaken in me the courage to dispel the dark cloud which brooded over me.
from their door one, however monstrous, who solicited their compassion
discovery were distinct and probable. After days and nights of
Mrs. Gardiner, with their four children, did at length appear at
“Care of him! Yes, I really believe Darcy _does_ take care of him in
surprise; but shortly recovering himself, advanced towards the party,
smooth and placid as a southern sea, but because it was full of dangers and
hoarse, feeble voice: “I heard every word you fellows were saying.”
me, and teach you not to believe a word I say. I am particularly unlucky
of? What are you telling Miss Bennet? Let me hear what it is.”
be seen; and Mr. Darcy found, on further inquiry, that your father
brought to reason. I will speak to her about it myself directly. She is
_family_ owe me nothing. Much as I respect them, I believe I thought
enter by night and hide himself in a vessel bound for the Black Sea. I
society, a perfect willingness to accept it, she ventured to engage for
were remarkably well done; and I suppose he has two or three French
because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get a
despair, he led me again to converse concerning myself personally. He asked
would not step forward? Could he expect to be noticed again by the
“It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter with
and in the bitterness of my heart I cursed him.
advantages, and I can be equally happy in either.”
abode. But as the ensuing week commenced, I thought of the information
“Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken
had a very different story to hear.
On the contrary, there is something pleasing about his mouth when he
daily lost ground in the pursuit, I now gained on him, so much so that
Elizabeth was the real cause of all the mischief; and the other, that
departed from land.
If there had not been a Netherfield ball to prepare for and talk of, the
had made in the sciences. He soon perceived that I disliked the
the clear waters, where we can distinguish every pebble that lies at
misery and taunt me with the death of Clerval, as a new incitement for
may convince you of its being one.”
[Illustration:
compassionate me and overlook my personal deformity. Could they turn
‘that you will be obliged to pay three months’ rent and to lose
by embarrassment or dejection, or by trying to avoid her, but by
nations of the earth. I heard of the slothful Asiatics, of the stupendous
near so much like a ball.”
“Let her be called down. She shall hear my opinion.”
“And we mean to treat you all,” added Lydia; “but you must lend us the
she had someone to listen to her. The Cat seemed to think that there
for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure.”
the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened
part of London! My dear aunt, how could you think of it? Mr. Darcy may,
her countenance, always engaging, was rendered, by the solemnity of her
“He is just what a young-man ought to be,” said she, “sensible,
did not come the same as they used to do:—
doubtful or suspicious.”
afterwards their love.
speaking to it,” she thought, “till its ears have come, or at least one
the compliment you are paying me. I am very sensible of the honour of
the door; her husband looked impenetrably grave; her daughters, alarmed,
“I remember, the first time that I did this, the young woman, when she
my own family circle, to think meanly of all the rest of the world, to
the produce of your garden? I do not wish to take any unfair advantage, and
“I have often observed how little young ladies are interested by books
to give her the information herself; and therefore charged Mr. Collins,
own, are circumstances highly in my favour; and you should take it into
might not unreasonably have alarmed her. She had dressed with more than
distance.
I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel, whom thou
So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she ran, as well she might,
walk, and turning towards her, “these offences might have been
to forget those friends who were so many miles absent, and whom I had
This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little
“I was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us. It was more
these good people to nurse: they were better off then. They had not been
they lived at the bottom of a well—”
exclamations and agony, I did not rush among mankind and perish in the
Elizabeth’s intimate friend.
Chapter 8
hoped, by Caroline’s not living in the same house with her brother, she
In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth’s letter we returned
“But what am _I_ to do?” said Alice.
finding that he was unemployed in this city, I easily engaged him to assist
ornamented with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens,
make his communication public. On the contrary, every particular
Roncesvalles, of the Round Table of King Arthur, and the chivalrous
There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as
gathered resolution to address him in a pause of the tempest of his passion.
alike ignorant; she might become ten thousand times more malignant than her
“But my toils now drew near a close, and in two months from this time I
trouble you with any inquisitiveness of mine.”
[Illustration:
dreamy sort of way, “Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?” and
implied doubt, and were both protesting that they knew many women who
“Yes!” shouted Alice.
idea cross my imagination, than I became convinced of its truth; my teeth
breathing port wine, who followed them into the room.
talk of her views in the same intelligible tone. Elizabeth blushed and
“Mr. Darcy with him”                                                 404
field on which that patriot fell. For a moment my soul was elevated
you see, Miss, we’re doing our best, afore she comes, to—” At this
He was seized and cast into prison the very day that Safie arrived from
protest. Yet, both in Mr. Addison and in Miss Austen there is, though a
whose aerial summits hung over its recesses. Their icy and glittering
three straws about her. Who _could_ about such a nasty little freckled
look on the reverse of the picture. Continue for the present to write to
“When alone, Safie resolved in her own mind the plan of conduct that it
ever as he expressed them.
perpetually presented to my eyes had made me acquainted.
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
but did not live to do it. Mr. Bingley intended it likewise, and
tranquillity; for when supper was over, singing was talked of, and she
who has been so fortunate as I have been, in early preferment; and, I
acknowledge?”
CHAPTER LIX.
Down, down, down. Would the fall _never_ come to an end? “I wonder how
cousins to Rosings, where they were engaged to drink tea. Mrs. Collins,
fate awaiting me. Learn from me, dear lady, to submit in patience to
She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on
lefthand bit.
the scorn.”
of my own. I’m a hatter.”
his acquaintance with me, which I cannot wonder at, since he might have
Alice)—“and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster—”
other reply to Elizabeth’s salutation than a slight inclination of the
bestow every benefit upon him with tears of gratitude at his acceptance.
“And this,” said she, “is the end of all his friend’s anxious
upon my pillow, sleep crept over me; I felt it as it came and blessed
which they were written, I began to study them with diligence. It was
opinion of her--their opinion of everybody--would always coincide, there
“Well, Lizzy,” said Mrs. Bennet, one day, “what is your opinion _now_ of
was over, she began to declare that it was what she had expected all the
best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery;
to repeat it, when a cry of “The trial’s beginning!” was heard in the
anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing up into the roof of the
“In nursing your sister I am sure you have pleasure,” said Bingley; “and
world I love, and he is an angel. I should never be happy without
determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets,
Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide
remember that four evenings have been also spent together--and four
Elizabeth at first had rather wondered that Charlotte should not prefer
“Ay, no doubt: but that is what a governess will prevent; and if I had
is really ill, and keeps her room. Could she exert herself, it would be
Younge was, he knew, intimately acquainted with Wickham; and he
never saw in the whole course of my life.”
“He brought it with him for us to see.”
the pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers,
every thing seemed of a pitchy darkness, until the eye recovered itself
wherever she went she was sure of hearing it talked of. The sight of
But _now_ suppose as much as you choose; give a loose to your fancy,
roads, were all to her taste, and Lady Catherine’s behaviour was most
a vicinity to her mother and Meryton relations was not desirable even to
Miss Bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might be any
distant white Alps which always attend on the piny mountains of my
had forbidden my uncle to allow me to embark in a seafaring life.
may have drawn him in.”
Chapter 24
“Something very much to the purpose, of course. He begins with
of the traveller with our telescopes until he was lost among the
science and discoveries. Yet why do I say this? I have myself been
house, where they were to remain a few days.
his terrific appearance. He had carried off their store of winter
doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?”
that it was the Swiss diligence; it stopped just where I was standing, and
felt, no Jane to comfort me, and say that I had not been so very weak,
months before my father discovered his abode. Overjoyed at this discovery,
the morning, before she had risen, he cleared away the snow that
event as to the consummation of his happiness.
stream, and a narrow walk amidst the rough coppice-wood which bordered
beaming with beauty, has decayed, but your spirit still visits and
_To J. Comyns Carr
funny watch!” she remarked. “It tells the day of the month, and doesn’t
instruct, though we can teach only what is not worth knowing. Forgive
and her children should go to London at the same time that Mr. Bennet
his mind was visible in every feature. He was struggling for the
wore a happier aspect. The families who had been in town for the winter
hearts may be; it is mutable and cannot withstand you if you say that it
to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time to
philosophers, I always came from my studies discontented and unsatisfied.
neglect such an acquaintance. Well, how pleased I am! And it is such a
of myself, he fills me with cheerful auguries. Even the sailors feel
Forty-two. _All persons more than a mile high to leave the court_.”
“How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of a
of shame that she could hardly keep her seat. It drew from her, however,
nothing can be done; I know very well that nothing can be done. How is
not by any circumstance been delayed a day!
How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie—”
zeal. She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call
affection warmed and opened my senses; I became the same happy creature
Charlotte’s opinion had always been. Neither could she deny the justice
so, let Mr. Darcy contradict it. Besides, there was truth in his looks.”
confess that I did not expect to receive _more_ than my due.”
Our house was the house of mourning. My father’s health was deeply
His countenance instantly assumed an aspect of the deepest gloom, and
not the smallest hope. It is every way horrible!”
affection. There was a sense of justice in my father’s upright mind
occasion for exposing him so dreadfully. What is your own opinion?”
Chapter 21
approach of death. I dare not ask you to do what I think right, for I
Catherine de Bourgh’s attention to his wishes, and consideration for his
way.”
imprudent with such a companion at Brighton, where the temptations must
vivacity that had before charmed me; but her gentleness and soft looks of
from those he had used in the morning, directed his steps across the
and of his overpowering friend, assisted by the attractions of Miss
an hour, hoping for her return, and almost resolving to walk after her
doubt, as he was well assured that I had no other person to provide for,
But I was in no mood to laugh and talk with strangers or enter into
melancholy scene so lately gone through at Rosings. To Rosings he then
was a sincere pleasure to Elizabeth, though in the course of their
did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming.
me; and although I loved him with a mixture of affection and reverence
exception of her neglected daughter, was left childless. The
wife; but where other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true
about the twentieth time that day.
figures!” And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a
“Whatever I do is done in a hurry,” replied he; “and therefore if I
Jane, who was the general favourite, and whose steady sense and
inhabited. He revolved a thousand plans by which he should be enabled
easily learnt had never been _his_ design. He confessed himself
were by themselves. “How strange this is! and for _this_ we are to be
mercenary, and _she_ shall be foolish.”
subsist upon coarser diet; I bore the extremes of heat and cold with
origin; the whole detail of that series of disgusting circumstances
motives and feelings of these lovely creatures; I was inquisitive to
wilful ill-nature, or a voluntary penance; for on these occasions it was
“In my youth,” said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
retaining Mr. Bingley for his sister.
“Yes, very indifferent, indeed,” said Elizabeth, laughingly. “Oh, Jane!
Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
was. She longed to know what at that moment was passing in his mind; in
farewell.
heart was heavy, and my steps slow. The labour of winding among the
“I suppose so,” said Alice.
to the other side of the court.
“Certainly,” he replied, biting his lips. Elizabeth hoped she had
suppose that it cost him a few struggles to relinquish her, she was
performed towards him every little office of affection and duty with
“Well,” cried her mother, “it is all very right; who should do it but
quite equal to the scene, and could observe the three ladies before her
rid of her two most deserving daughters. With what delighted pride she
influencing his felicity; sensible that, if such an idea had been
now nearly elapsed since the night on which he first received life; and
“Mary and Kitty have been very kind, and would have shared in every
about wasting _it_. It’s _him_.”
which she had at first intended. This benefit was fully repaid;
miserable self.
discovered from its commencement to be from your father. I instantly wrote
of my laboratory. The remains of the half-finished creature, whom I had
yet the vessel in which I was, the wind that blew me from the detested
“Have you, then, some other attachment?”
who judge grossly to contrast the good nature of Addison with the
“It may do very well for the others,” replied Mr. Bingley; “but I am
want of attention to other people’s feelings, and want of resolution,
Exactly as we were.
“Eliza Bennet,” said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on her, “is
“If he had had any compassion for _me_,” cried her husband impatiently,
such to send as might rather give contentment to her aunt than to
look into the park. The five weeks which she had now passed in Kent had
family. My haggard and wild appearance awoke intense alarm, but I
of the goldfish kept running in her head, and she had a vague sort of
Heaven! are quite well.”
the only sacrifice, he might have been allowed to sport with it in
he was the admirer of some one else. Elizabeth was watchful enough to
“Come, let’s try the first figure!” said the Mock Turtle to the
grin without a cat! It’s the most curious thing I ever saw in my life!”
the evening of the night on which the murder had been committed at the
admiration to so great a man, and yet that he should look at her because
to unfold to any human being. Having said thus much, I feel no doubt of
a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted, the coach
the whole party in the liveliest spirits.
his sisters would be successful in keeping him away. Unwilling as she
not to depend too much on the prospect that is opened before us, but I
Miss Bingley was very deeply mortified by Darcy’s marriage; but as she
When they were all in the drawing-room, the questions which Elizabeth
countenances expressed a breathless terror, but the horror of others
[Illustration]
To Mrs. Gardiner, Wickham had one means of affording pleasure,
impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opinion,
drawing of a muchness?”
have thought of my meeting with--perhaps--a nephew of Lady Catherine de
As Elizabeth had no longer any interest of her own to pursue, she turned
“Please come back and finish your story!” Alice called after it; and
[Illustration:
rustling of the leaves and the warbling of the birds, and these were all to
but let me, or let the servant, go after Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner. You are
at the brook, and then lying down, was overcome by sleep.
“Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
contradictions and varieties, sighed at the perverseness of those
“Not the same thing a bit!” said the Hatter. “You might just as well
no want of subject. We may compare our different opinions.”
attended her into the breakfast parlour. Bingley met them with hopes
as likely to give any news of him. And in the wretched state of his own
Jane then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to Elizabeth. These
Bingley, from this time, was of course a daily visitor at Longbourn;
Bennet, who quarrelled with no compliments, answered most readily,--
sleepless and aching eyes the church of Ingolstadt, its white steeple
next Saturday.”
and her husband at Longbourn, as soon as they were married, that he was
stiffness of manner and resentful silence. He scarcely ever spoke to
Gryphon. “We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?”
niece should be married from this house, of which I hope you will
original plan.”
“Oh,” cried Elizabeth, “I am exceedingly diverted. But it is so
Mrs. Hurst was observing their game.
[Illustration:
by without noticing her. Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying
with one of his officers; to own the truth, with Wickham! Imagine our
_chaperon_ you about to all the balls. Dear me! we had such a good piece
received; and I am sorry to say that by his account, as well as his
as if nothing had happened.
“Certainly not, at first; but they are very pleasing women when you
housekeeping, I dare say.”
seen her sister looking so well as to banish all fear for her health,
in the regiment since the preceding Wednesday; several of the officers
would be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the man; but whether she
could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered her
Clerval—could aught ill entrench on the noble spirit of Clerval? Yet
retired, for I saw the figure of a man at a distance, and I remembered
“These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings. Was
looked forward to as possible at some future time.
so much both of Mr. Darcy and his relation Colonel Fitzwilliam, I was
reason which I could not learn, he became obnoxious to the government.
continually recurred to the same subject persuaded him that my disorder
and was finally settled according to Charlotte’s first sketch. She was
before the carriage stopped at Longbourn House.
unavoidable evils, or augment them by anxiety, was no part of her
absence of the object of which I now feel as a most severe evil, I have no
at his feet. He raised her and smiled with such kindness and affection
cousins in the course of the evening; and I take this opportunity of
a gloom over us. But it is this gloom which appears to have taken so
the best feature of that otherwise admirable book. Although Miss Austen
“Come, my head’s free at last!” said Alice in a tone of delight, which
know what he really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in
he spoke I read in his kindling eye and in his animated glance a
bitter complaints of their inattention to what was going forward. As all
letters.
hearing the very best performers.” On Miss Lucas’s persevering, however,
So strange an accident has happened to us that I cannot forbear
“My love, should not you like to see a place of which you have heard so
something else.”
did not come back she should think herself very ill-used. It needed all
though often standing within a very short distance of her, quite
was, moreover, such a promising thing for her younger daughters, as
consideration. Nay, when I read a letter of his, I cannot help giving
chief object was unquestionably my sister’s fortune, which is thirty
eyes and attitude expressed the utmost sadness and despondency. The
repentant mother. Poor girl! She wept when she quitted our house; she
addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam. “Shall we ask him why a man of sense and
good-will of Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and though the mother was
Tuesday; or that it will be in her power to persuade him that, instead
tormented; and at others I felt the fingers of the monster already grasping
Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea.
was heard on the stairs, and in a moment he entered the room. All
had no right to withhold from him the small portion of happiness which
“Herald, read the accusation!” said the King.
[Illustration]
“Come here, child,” cried her father as she appeared. “I have sent for
gentlemen remained at the instrument till her Ladyship’s carriage was
_you_ like cats if you were me?”
she had no conversation, no style, no taste, no beauty. Mrs. Hurst
“It’s all about as curious as it can be,” said the Gryphon.
They agreed that Mrs. Bennet should only hear of the departure of the
Wickham, wherever he meets him, and then he will be killed, and what is
the most miserable of mortals. Persecuted and tortured as I am and
appear.”
many merits, as they proceeded together up the great staircase.
gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who does the honours of
other, of which we can form no idea. Interested people have perhaps
here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will I
conjectured that he must speedily be destroyed by the breaking of the
could not exist in the world _two_ men over whom Mr. Darcy could have
temper. I was given good principles, but left to follow them in pride
the good will and mediation of the old De Lacey, I might by his means
strange creatures of her little sister’s dream.
As he quitted the room, Elizabeth felt how improbable it was that they
newly-born notions were passing in their heads, the perturbation of
they were flat but fertile, and almost every town was marked by the
[Illustration]
bottle marked “poison,” it is almost certain to disagree with you,
was absent when it was committed, and such a declaration would have
augmented and rendered sublime by the mighty Alps, whose white and
any idea of their not being gone to Scotland: when that apprehension
savage when they met in the kitchen.
pleasure as well as greater certainty. Absence had increased her desire
“Let me first see how he behaves,” said she; “it will then be early
whilst the luckless Kitty continued in the parlour repining at her fate
as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon. As they drove to Mr. Gardiner’s
unprotected from his attacks, exasperated as he might be by my
children after the decease of yourself and my sister; and,
livery, guessed what it meant, and imparted no small degree of surprise
the direction of your ship. I had determined, if you were going southwards,
I performed the first part of my journey on horseback. I afterwards
As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment,
after that into a butterfly, I should think you’ll feel it a little
“‘That is indeed unfortunate; but if you are really blameless, cannot
burned within me, died in my heart, and I pursued my path towards the
pride and my delight. On the evening previous to her being brought to
First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the tiny
and her noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run
moment, or are the result of previous study?”
had contemplated during the day. They congregated round me; the
“That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Caroline,” cried her
could only tell her nieces what they already knew, that Mr. Denny had
hopes of Mr. Bingley’s heart were entertained.
hour’s rest, which was absolutely necessary, and yet which was bitterly
knowing what she did, she accepted him. He walked away again
“Dearest niece,” said my father, “dry your tears. If she
“I do not know what you mean,” replied my brother, in accents of
too well my treatment the night before to trust myself in his power. I
ever,” thought the poor child, “for I never was so small as this
sea-shore—”
in serving you—he bids you weep, to shed countless tears; happy beyond
She could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse
don’t think,” Alice went on, “that they’d let Dinah stop in the house
I shall continue my journal concerning the stranger at intervals,
determine what to say in reply. You wanted me, I know, to say ‘Yes,’
were not decidedly better. Bingley was quite uncomfortable; his sisters
journey across the sea in a direction that led to no land; and they
“You might just as well say,” added the Dormouse, who seemed to be
Elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to her letter as
consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite
with a fare from London; and as he thought the circumstance of a
“Is this a hint to me, Lizzy,” said her father, “to send for the
was followed up on his side by a happy readiness of conversation--a
discredit and misery. My child, let me not have the grief of seeing
Miss Bingley. I think I have heard you say that you know them.”
“My aunt,” she continued, “is going to-morrow into that part of the
once paid him a visit in his humble parsonage, where she had perfectly
till she recollected that _his_ being the intimate friend of Bingley,
Frankenstein;
esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views of
kennel, that I might view the adjacent cottage and discover if I could
they met, it was more decided and remarkable. At his own ball he
“Is not this nice? is not this an agreeable surprise?”
departure for Ingolstadt. Beloved and venerable parent! He still remained
Pig and Pepper
“I’m a poor man,” the Hatter went on, “and most things twinkled after
gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a
to make this circumstance a matter of pleasure, because on such
“Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
sensibly in this science, but not sufficiently to follow up any kind of
view. I did not dare return to the apartment which I inhabited, but
window!”
determined.”
been her care which provided me a companion in Clerval—and yet a man
thanking you for your kindness to Lydia had certainly great effect. _Too
She practises very constantly.”
advantageous. By you, I was properly humbled. I came to you without a
less injury to my frame; my stature far exceeded theirs. When I looked
in she went.
have made. You throw a torch into a pile of buildings, and when they are
much more than five--she executed six capital works, and has not left a
Heading to Chapter XVIII.                                            113
a young creature, with a pail on her head, passing before my hovel. The
characteristic. Bingley had never met with pleasanter people or prettier
if you are innocent? I am not one of your enemies, I believed you
shown me extreme kindness. He had caused the best room in the prison
true to each other, here in this land of peace and beauty, your native
and our poor Lydia would be, we are now anxious to be assured it has
that can befall a sensitive being; to be base and vicious, as many on
niece Georgiana went to Ramsgate last summer, I made a point of her
unsoftened by cultivation, retains some of the noblest endowments of
CHAPTER XII.
her appearance at Pemberley must be to her, and was curious to know
“I am the less surprised at what has happened,” replied Sir William,
crucible, have indeed performed miracles. They penetrate into the recesses
and he be again alone, exasperated by the fresh provocation of being
“I do not know: I hope there was. But to be guarded at such a time is
“Boots and shoes under the sea,” the Gryphon went on in a deep voice,
“And which of the two do you call _my_ little recent piece of modesty?”
postponed this attempt for some months longer, for the importance
final and wonderful catastrophe.
“Right, as usual,” said the Duchess: “what a clear way you have of
from the moment I turned my reluctant steps from my father’s
down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of Netherfield and
“And of this place,” thought she, “I might have been mistress! With
“My eldest sister has been in town these three months. Have you never
grow any more—As it is, I can’t get out at the door—I do wish I hadn’t
them by Heaven, whom to bring up to good, and whose future lot it was in
conversation.
the course of Jane and Elizabeth’s correspondence with her, made her
“Upon my word,” said Mrs. Gardiner, “I begin to be of your uncle’s
before, never! And I declare it’s too bad, that it is!”
be listening, so she went on again: “Twenty-four hours, I _think_; or
dear sister, though the event has proved you right, do not think me
particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this, it
o’clock, and when one inquired where she had passed the night, she
“The spiteful old ladies”                                            377
followed and directed my steps and when I most murmured would suddenly
expose himself to such a man. Mr. Darcy was eyeing him with
obliged to return nearly to the same spot from which I had departed.
being loved by her sister.
as to go after that savage Queen: so she waited.
crowded round it, panting, and asking, “But who has won?”
remark, with variations. “I shall sit here,” he said, “on and off, for
future life. But before I am run away with by my feelings on this
Elizabeth observed my agitation for some time in timid and fearful silence,
diverted my mind from the thoughts over which it had brooded for the
youth joined her, who also expressed surprise. I observed, with pleasure,
“I will go to Meryton,” said she, “as soon as I am dressed, and tell the
“To oblige you, I would try to believe almost anything, but no one else
snatched from me every hope of future happiness; no creature had ever been
She saw herself the object of attention to tens and to scores of them at
unavoidable. But death was no evil to me if the loss of Elizabeth were
Elizabeth replied very concisely that she was.
a wife in view, as he meant to choose one of the daughters, if he found
always within doors; and in the nearness of the Parsonage, or the
little animals and birds waiting outside. The poor little Lizard, Bill,
Mrs. Collins, she addressed a variety of questions to Maria and
“What do you mean? What do you demand of your captain? Are you, then,
Miss Elizabeth herself, were, I am inclined to think, rather hard on him
most unexpected and serious nature; but I am afraid of alarming you--be
of selecting a wife, as I certainly did.”
no mice in the air, I’m afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that’s
pleasure.
been the case.
assure themselves of certain happiness? I feel as if I were walking on
escaped from them to the room where lay the body of Elizabeth, my love, my
return. They owed the restoration of Lydia, her character, everything to
worship in his attachment to my mother, differing wholly from the
mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness—you know you say
the dining-parlour. She then joined them soon enough to see Lydia, with
approbation of all that was done, and his willingness to fulfil the
then a voice she had never heard before, “Sure then I’m here! Digging
nephew are formed for each other. They are descended, on the maternal
possible attention might be paid to the sick lady and her sister.
one will endeavour to sustain me in dejection. I shall commit my thoughts
girls had been on the point of marriage, and after all there was nothing
ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without a subject. Mr.
acquaintance that are really accomplished.”
my heart. I saw an insurmountable barrier placed between me and my
These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an
my own. Such I was, from eight to eight-and-twenty; and such I might
reasoning, till an accident again changed the current of my ideas.
his eyes, and my voice quivered and failed me as I beheld tears trickle
is it not a duty to the survivors that we should refrain from augmenting
woman whose weak understanding and illiberal mind had very early in
walking arm in arm with Elizabeth, gave her a look expressive of her
resolved to continue the acquaintance no longer. I pity, though I
to Pemberley, or admit his society in town. In town, I believe, he
surprise. His complexion became pale with anger, and the disturbance of
elevating his soul from earth. Such a man has a double existence: he
could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious
composure.
veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as Wickham. The
Mrs. Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a few
frost, turned back; and while Sir William accompanied him, Charlotte
On every golden scale!
and steadfastly was she persuaded, that he could have no explanation to
looked around for the means. After many fruitless attempts to gain
along like a mighty avalanche and produced a kind of insanity in my
long letter; but now, having _that_ to communicate which she knew would
“This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!” said Mrs. Bennet, more than
though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told,
there could be nothing more to plague her on his account.
me with disdain and horror. The poor that stopped at their door were
share my madness? Have you drunk also of the intoxicating draught? Hear me;
for your long, kind, satisfactory detail of particulars; but, to say the
regrets which must have been injurious to her own health and their
what had happened at Netherfield. She read with an eagerness which
Darcy and herself.
I trembled violently at his exordium, and my father continued—
Elizabeth’s spirits were so high on the occasion, that though she did
acting wrong, and because I am very sure that anxiety for her
“You are mistaken,” said he. “I will exert myself, and if
know,” he went on, spreading out the verses on his knee, and looking at
that, though he had been invited only to a family dinner, she would take
luck of it. The least agreeable circumstance in the business was the
and, quitting them both, he had removed with his family to a house about
“I won’t indeed!” said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of
I passed the night wretchedly. Sometimes my pulse beat so quickly and
House.        Cross Road.
Scotch and Irish airs, at the request of her younger sisters, who with
longer an object. She could think only of her letter.
_some_, conversation ought to be so arranged as that they may have the
to herself.
swallowed double my usual quantity and soon slept profoundly. But sleep did
“Back to land again, and that’s all the first figure,” said the Mock
intention in favour of matrimony; it remains to be told why my views
that it was a favourite haunt of hers. How it could occur a second time,
“A great many indeed,” said her companion, with a sigh.
to plead in excuse of my stay, but real, though unavailing concern.
sister must bring them more frequently together. And her neighbours at
such an attention, and then they were merely asked on leaving church to
“You look conscious. Young ladies have great penetration in such matters
such a design against a girl who is by no means unprotected or
progress of my intellect, I must not omit a circumstance which occurred
other designs that he had formed; but he was in such a hurry to be gone,
glorious spirit? What can I say that will enable you to understand the
“The sun rose; I heard the voices of men and knew that it was
it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the
“I consent to your demand, on your solemn oath to quit Europe for ever,
have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family. You
teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen’s shrill
do for _us_. We do not suffer by accident. It does not often happen
She is almost three-and-twenty! Lord! how ashamed I should be of not
_I suppose, however, that the majority of at least competent votes
possessed a delightful house (for such it was in my eyes) and every
littleness. She does not touch what she did not feel herself called to
points, and the well balancing of what you may esteem your duties, I
the court; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was
Mr. Darcy would connect himself with a family, where to every other
She found that she was to receive no other answer; and, after a short
It was a fortnight since Mrs. Bennet had been down stairs, but on this
to suggest some herself,--some shelves in the closets upstairs.
feelings of revenge and hatred filled my bosom, and I did not strive to
Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
their dear friend again, called it an age since they had met, and
the greatest practical advantage. Twice I actually hired myself as an
Clerval, whose eyes and feelings were always quick in discerning the
with the most anxious affection. Poor Justine was very ill; but other
not merely a few formal inquiries and an awkward pause and then away,
survivors.”
Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of
her an orphan and a beggar. This last blow overcame her, and she knelt
consider intervals of recreation and amusement as desirable for
exercise and by change of place, some relief from my intolerable
taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed
[Coleridge’s “Ancient Mariner.”]
Bingley replied that he did, and made his congratulations. Elizabeth
forward and precipitate. But I can assure the young ladies that I come
up to him as a superior. Your lively talents would place you in the
George Allen.
give me no hope from law. A man of honour could not have doubted the
as capable as any other woman’s of superior execution.”
should omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody
“Because you were grave and silent, and gave me no encouragement.”
“At once to insist upon having such a report universally contradicted.”
Bennet?”
the bauble on which the chief proof rests, if she had earnestly desired it,
hedges,” the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; “but those
follows:--
of horror, such as the deed which he had now done, nearly in the light
Alice coming. “There’s _plenty_ of room!” said Alice indignantly, and
town in the hope of keeping him there, and tries to persuade you that he
miserly father; and though he belonged to one of the universities, he
“Let’s go on with the game,” the Queen said to Alice; and Alice was too
And now my wanderings began which are to cease but with life. I have
town, and I shall take the opportunity of calling in Grosvenor Street.”
tears somewhat soothed me. But again when I reflected that they had
afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room. Colonel Fitzwilliam,
pens remarkably well.”
a blessing to them, but it would be unfair to her to keep her in poverty
been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and
hurried off.
miserable a wretch; but when you speak of new ties and fresh
never-dying worm alive in my bosom, which allowed of no hope or
further to wish.
anyone; and all that I can hope in this case is, that she is deceived
“Another time, Lizzy,” said her mother, “I would not dance with _him_,
“I do not know,” said the man, “what the custom of the
manner.
himself; yet Elizabeth was longing to know what Mrs. Gardiner thought of
that!” He got behind Alice as he spoke.
pay.”
On the whole island there were but three miserable huts, and one of
slave of my creature I allowed myself to be governed by the impulses of
some other mode of action.
“A few days after, the Turk entered his daughter’s apartment and told
nothing had been known in Hertfordshire but what he told
Sir William and Lady Lucas were speedily applied to for their consent;
and if yet, in some mode unknown to me, thou hadst not ceased to think
of it to another, not to you.”
the cloud, and I descended upon the glacier. The surface is very
might ever hope to make you love me. My avowed one, or what I avowed to
Having now a good house and a very sufficient income, he intended to
“_Are_ you to get in at all?” said the Footman. “That’s the first
gentleman,” looking at Darcy, “seemed to think the country was nothing
“Stupid things!” Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she
_her_, of the regiment’s approaching removal, was indeed beyond
done now! How puzzling all these changes are! I’m never sure what I’m
by the sophisms of the being I had created; I had been struck senseless by
Justine was apprehended. On being charged with the fact, the poor girl
Some of the jury wrote it down “important,” and some “unimportant.”
“She is innocent, my Elizabeth,” said I, “and that shall
together.
civilly, but it was plain that their company was by no means so
“Nor I,” said the March Hare.
along the banks of the Tay, to Perth, where our friend expected us.
“Felix conducted the fugitives through France to Lyons and across Mont
It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr. Bingley to see you
“I do not think we were speaking at all. Sir William could not have
only school in which I had studied human nature, but this book
to the efforts of his aunt, who _did_ call on him in her return through
While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
a young Russian lady of moderate fortune, and having amassed a considerable
brother Gardiner’s in town so much in love with her, that my
of the ground.” So she tucked it away under her arm, that it might not
o’clock. My uncle and aunt and I were to go together; and the others
torture such as you cannot even imagine.
conviction of its being a letter from the nephew, instead of the aunt;
of matrimony. Let me congratulate you on a very important conquest.”
happiness of Lydia herself in bidding farewell, the more gentle adieus
with the companion you bestow, I will quit the neighbourhood of man and
pause, “who more particularly wishes to be known to you. Will you allow
the remotest of the Orkneys as the scene of my labours. It was a place
sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at
upon without some help. Any place would do of about three or four
“If you are not so compassionate as to dine to-day with Louisa and
nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised herself
“Beyond a doubt they do wish him to choose Miss Darcy,” replied Jane;
me.”
“Maybe you are come to a place that will not prove much to your taste,
light seemed to dawn upon my mind, and bounding with joy, I communicated my
quickness is always much prized by the possessor, and often without any
merchant who, from a flourishing state, fell, through numerous
the idea. She had not herself forgotten to feel that the marriage of her
“You are old, Father William,” the young man said,
seated herself.
what her anxiety for his life had been before.
that I was not neglected, but his visits were short and with long
the family, the ceremony of leave-taking was performed when the ladies
could not have. Here again I shall give you pain--to what degree you
quite bare, and making a wretched appearance after the palaces I had
animal, striving so to forget the world, my fears, and more than all,
friend, if thus you will allow me to name you; nothing can alter my
vulgar. Nor was her respect for him, though it made her more quiet, at
instrument, he sat absorbed in reflection.
while the rest of the party went back to the game.
see the corpse. At first I attempted to prevent her but she persisted,
cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself,
Elizabeth shook her head over this letter. It convinced her that
cookery was owing. But here he was set right by Mrs. Bennet, who assured
surprise the greater when I write to them, and sign my name Lydia
not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and it
herself.”
he did not say what. She then took a large house in Edward Street,
the air was pure, although chilled by the northeast breeze that was then
_begin_ freely--a slight preference is natural enough; but there are
And the moral of that is—‘The more there is of mine, the less there is
study is certainly unlawful, that is to say, not befitting the human
astonishing: his conversation was full of imagination; and very often, in
situation. We perceived a low carriage, fixed on a sledge and drawn by
“What I was going to say,” said the Dodo in an offended tone, “was,
had not seen for a week, she was soon able to make a voluntary
the very next week. She remembered, also, that till the Netherfield
meeting frequently at St. James’s, with very decent composure. If he did
mountain. It is a scene terrifically desolate. In a thousand spots
As it happened that Elizabeth had much rather not, she endeavoured in
The two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery, where this
them more necessary beings. If our impulses were confined to hunger,
attention. When she is secure of him, there will be leisure for falling
ignorantly I had repined.
solitary walk, in which she might indulge in all the delight of
running into the recess I had chosen, with all the sportiveness of
“You make me laugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound. You know it is not
“Removed!” cried Bingley. “It must not be thought of. My sister, I am
make any; and Elizabeth at that instant moving towards them, he was
sure, will not hear of her removal.”
The farewell between herself and Mr. Wickham was perfectly friendly; on
abortion, to be spurned at, and kicked, and trampled on. Even now my
Chapter 13
“It was a lady on horseback, accompanied by a country-man as a guide.
honour, I will try to do what I think to be wisest; and now I hope you
A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
_is_ a shade in a character. But you have chosen your fault well. I
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
themselves with such a family? And this consideration leads me,
the worth of my nature supported me when others would have been oppressed,
with him, I cannot say that I regret my comparative insignificance.
The shutters had been thrown back, and with a sensation of horror not to be
little, except in a low voice, to Mrs. Jenkinson, in whose appearance
longer hope to be benefited by it. She wanted to hear of him, when there
house, he was used to be free from them there: his civility, therefore,
nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us
yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the
Heading to Chapter XXX.                                              209
refuge in the most perfect solitude. I passed whole days on the lake
grow larger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave
made up my mind about it; if I’m Mabel, I’ll stay down here! It’ll be
Charlotte wisely did not hear. After sitting long enough to admire
many men of genius who had directed their inquiries towards the same
acceptable to her, especially when tempered with the silence and respect
sickened; her fever was accompanied by the most alarming symptoms, and the
again to bless me, Clerval to press my hand once more, my Elizabeth to
nothing less than a very smart bonnet, indeed, or a really new muslin in
curious to hear how it was managed?”
repose should not be broken in on. My aunt Philips came to Longbourn on
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
much more a murdered that could destroy radiant innocence! Poor little
/* NIND “My dear friend, */
/* RIGHT “Hunsford, near Westerham, Kent, _15th October_. */
chemical apparatus.
content with the results promised by the modern professors of natural
stationed himself so as to command a full view of the fair performer’s
was always the sweetest tempered, most generous-hearted boy in the
lived. Not like the wild young men now-a-days, who think of nothing but
extinguished their lights and retired, as I conjectured, to rest.”
militia, it did not appear that he was on terms of particular friendship
and immediately said,--
gave existence; then my lot on earth will be fulfilled and I may die.”
]
“I feared it might injure the brain;
woods and vines.
_me_. I should infinitely prefer a book.”
I shall keep mine to swell my song.”
demand it of your justice.
above the dome of Mont Blanc, render this scene of beauty still more
were yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition.
not have _her_.”
satisfied with what I have done. I am not romantic, you know. I never
by Lewis Carroll
innocence in the world, how his wife and his friend induce him to play
at least it shows that _she_ was serious in the object of her journey.
“I would not be so fastidious as you are,” cried Bingley, “for a
concerning the wretch I had created. I had a persuasion that I should be
standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had much better
they returned down stairs; and, taking leave of the housekeeper, were
this decay and forced to spend days and nights in vaults and
sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged to say
the air. I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure, that had long
might bury me and my destroyer in its ruins.
judge, therefore, if I do not feel for your misfortunes.’
“dear lovely child, he now sleeps with his angel mother! Who that had
“I never saw a more promising inclination; he was growing quite
so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind as was here
Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low
he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them, and a ball
The month of May had already commenced, and I expected the letter daily
useful sort of person, not brought up high, but able to make a small
comes down on Thursday, at the latest, very likely on Wednesday. She was
subject to all those fantastic limits and restrictions against which
“I began to be afraid you would never come back again. People _did_ say,
M. Krempe was not equally docile; and in my condition at that time, of
our dear Bingley! What can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always
weaknesses of woman at such different ages. With Mary, Miss Austen has
word about it till now.”
instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an annual sum, for
smile,--
honour or credit could now be purchased for her. The satisfaction of
They were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother. Mrs. Bennet
brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion and doubt as to
in the imagination. But even human sympathies were not sufficient to
Bingley had now been gone a week, and nothing was heard of his return.
“Fifteenth,” said the March Hare.
“You have been ill, very ill, and even the constant letters of dear
this idea was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently
now and then; such as, “Sure, I don’t like it, yer honour, at all, at
She smiled, but made no answer. He repeated the question, with some
disposition of both. I will only say, farther, that from what passed
before in the company of her who was now but a shadow and a recollection.
believe myself utterly unworthy of it.
all, took place. Miss Bingley’s civility to Elizabeth increased at last
sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care. _My_
occupation that I have not allowed myself sufficient rest, as you see;
nor of any of the remarkable places through which their route thither
were for ever alive in my own bosom. But I thought Werter himself a
and to request that he will satisfy the various creditors of Mr. Wickham
she said to herself; “his eyes are so _very_ nearly at the top of his
every moment more unconcerned and indifferent. Your profusion makes me
“There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
by exclamations and inquiries about the other, of whom, however, she
hope, which I dared not trust myself to question but which was
“I have no reason, I assure you,” said he, “to be dissatisfied with my
the young girl and her companion were employed in various occupations
well talked over. To Elizabeth, however, he voluntarily acknowledged
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
his partners. O that he had sprained his ancle in the first dance!”
did not know him in the least. Lord! how I laughed! and so did Mrs.
“Pray tell your sister that I long to see her.”
occasionally even by your father:--pardon me,--it pains me to offend
Elizabeth could not but look surprised.
Wickham, Georgiana also recovered in time, though not enough to be able
“He does not exactly recollect the circumstances, though he has heard
should have been the first to hide my grief and console my friends if
feelings, followed them in silence. She was overpowered by shame and
much larger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and looked along the
little copse.”
In as short a time as Mr. Collins’s long speeches would allow,
went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach
not speak another word. Darcy, in wretched suspense, could only say
acorns and berries afford me sufficient nourishment. My companion will
The Queen’s Croquet-Ground
moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called
overspreading many, and occasionally part of the stream. Mr. Gardiner
“Who that knows what his misfortunes have been can help feeling an
how sincerely she had been valued by his friend. Here was knowledge in
valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest
“I don’t know where Dinn may be,” said the Mock Turtle, “but if you’ve
rain and snow poured around me; mighty rivers were frozen; the surface
Alice,) “Well, I hardly know—No more, thank ye; I’m better now—but I’m
convinced of your innocence than I was, for even when he heard that you
But why should I dwell upon the incidents that followed this last
Charles gets to town he will be in no hurry to leave it again, we have
home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think
remonstrate. He entreated me to write often. “I had rather be with
That Mr. Bennet had been to Epsom and Clapham, before his arrival, but
By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table
I was exceedingly surprised on receiving so rude an answer from a
nature of Safie was outraged by this command; she attempted to
the father of Safie, who married her. The young girl spoke in high and
with the knowledge of your ill opinion too! and having to relate such a
dwelling on these subjects so interesting to my heart, to raise my
him with a most sincere regard; and she parted from him convinced, that,
“I want a clean cup,” interrupted the Hatter: “let’s all move one place
almost took from me my faculties.”
two girls had the honour of assisting Mrs. Jenkinson to make up her
As I looked on him, his countenance expressed the utmost extent of
he turned to his partner, and said,--
and, though determined not to slacken as a correspondent, it was for the
all, Mrs. Long and her nieces must stand their chance; and, therefore,
as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive.
“I am not now to learn,” replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave of the
hills behind the house, and of the beautiful oaks and Spanish chestnuts
two hours ago, she felt all the advantages of what they had gained.
her a peep at Jane; and, in short, as the time drew near, she would have
and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what to say to
deprived myself of rest and health. I had desired it with an ardour
of behaviour in your
of the bad,--belongs to you alone. And so, you like this man’s sisters,
elopement; and then Georgiana, unable to support the idea of grieving
Alice’s love_).
The summer months passed while I was thus engaged, heart and soul, in
I called on him to stay.
mathematics and the branches of study appertaining to that science as
“Next time you call,” said she, “I hope we shall be more lucky.”
London would agree with Lady Lucas.”
“It’s a mineral, I _think_,” said Alice.
uncommon nonsense.”
fare was, indeed, coarse, such as the peasants of the country ate, but
which, however wonderful, forces conviction. The story is too connected to
tone expressed her entire indifference; she addressed me in English,
tumult escaped unperceived to my hovel.”
emotions of benevolence towards me, I should return them a hundred and a
It was after my return from one of these rambles that my father,
the card-table, and stationed herself between Mr. Bingley and his eldest
and every dish was commended first by him, and then by Sir William, who
robbed of all that she could give me, she shall atone. The crime had
“Your conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you. My mind was more
expostulate with her father, but he left her angrily, reiterating his
Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or
]
pitied him deeply. “What is his sorrow?” she asked the Gryphon, and the
one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so
was in a few moments to overwhelm me and extinguish in horror and despair
all over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it was all
even Miss Austen has put into the mouth of any of her characters. It is
disturb his tranquillity. I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge
that to seem is not identical with to be--if this be cynicism, then
their union they sought the pleasant climate of Italy, and the change
something, and then they soon found out what was the matter.”
tell young ladies, that no excellence in music is to be acquired without
“At the door”
She then hastened away to her mother, who had purposely broken up the
After walking some time in this way, the two ladies in front, the two
grief to notice poor Justine, who had attended her during her illness
what do you think she said besides? ‘Ah! Mrs. Bennet, we shall have her
I threw myself into the chaise that was to convey me away and indulged in
“Yes,” replied Wickham; “his estate there is a noble one. A clear ten
scenes of evil and despair. I considered the being whom I had cast
Jane heard them with horror. “A gamester!” she cried. “This is wholly
watch out of its waistcoat-pocket_, and looked at it, and then hurried
the barbarous villagers, and resolved, whatever course of conduct I
after the first meal.
thing in the world! How strange must it appear to him! In what a
“Little alteration, except the growth of our dear children, has taken
condescended to ask. I now give it to _you_, if you are resolved on
himself; and she seized the opportunity of saying,--
happen,” she said to herself, “whenever I eat or drink anything; so
little Miss de Bourgh ate, pressing her to try some other dish and
[Illustration]
which restored him wonderfully.
what to think.”
Miss de Bourgh. You both did as much as you could in planning the
Till I have your disposition, your goodness, I never can have your
pleasure I experienced in watching my human neighbours. In the evening
owed to yourself, for excessive sorrow prevents improvement or enjoyment,
interest in the eyes of his friend. Mr. Darcy had at first scarcely
which travellers in deserts and barbarous countries are wont to meet. How I
these.”
minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the
Justine, and indeed every human being, was guiltless of this murder. I
deranged, and he instantly changed the subject of our conversation and
minutes in which they continued together were some of the most
kind Henry are not sufficient to reassure me on your account. You are
conception of my miseries and situation and was then released from my
you can find it.” And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice’s side as
too!) on this subject; and it was but the very Saturday night before I
unalterable evils, and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I had
[Illustration]
“The Turk quickly perceived the impression that his daughter had made
“How good it was in you, my dear Mr. Bennet! But I knew I should
inquired in a friendly, though general, way, after her family, and
Bennet, with little cessation, of his house and garden at Hunsford. Such
malignity, no misery, can be found comparable to mine. When I run over the
given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing
know that I am not to be trifled with. But however insincere _you_ may
safe arrival in London; and when she wrote again, Elizabeth hoped it
execution of the barbarous sentence. Felix visited the grate at night
me; if ye really pity me, crush sensation and memory; let me become as
retirement of such a life, would have answered all my ideas of
pairs of tiny white kid gloves: she took up the fan and a pair of the
therefore be judged indecent in me to come forward on this occasion, but
she’ll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!”
to be always so guarded and circumspect. It is very often nothing but
[Illustration]
clergyman is engaged to do the duty of the day. I remain, dear sir,
engagement, and dancing with him to-night. Tell him I hope he will
sometimes coming there stopped her, and instead of entering the park,
dreadful one; when revealed to you, it will chill your frame with
in the room a near relation to my patroness. I happened to overhear the
of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and
done, she had a less active part to play. It became her turn to listen.
in the best light, in the light in which it may be understood.”
and Lady Catherine kindly informing them that it was much better worth
“Here, then, I retreated and lay down happy to have found a shelter,
lace upon Mrs. Hurst’s gown----”
“Mr. Wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may insure his
in my feelings since the night of the appearance of the dæmon. I had
determination.’
“And have you answered the letter?” said Elizabeth.
shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of his good information;
“It’s—it’s a very fine day!” said a timid voice at her side. She was
“The family, after having been thus occupied for a short time,
would exactly finish Jane’s week, could not bring herself to receive
Sir William remained; but no sooner had he left them than her feelings
which were very pressing; and scrupled not to lay all the ill
[Illustration:
proportion, and her complexion wondrously fair, each cheek tinged with
with Elizabeth should take place immediately on my return. My father’s
raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but
not hesitate.”
it; but she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it
disappeared.
“Is that all, my dear Henry? How could you suppose that my first
“The expression of your sentiments of this subject, my dear Victor,
from the barbarity of man. As soon as morning dawned I crept from my
your cousin, I believe.”
through the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of
help doing so. Their names are, in chronological order, Elizabeth
absent, but had not courage for it. At length, however, the question was
him the preference even over Wickham, much as I value the impudence and
sister’s feelings, it was unknowingly done; and though the motives which
moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from it. A report of a most
In a fit of enthusiastic madness I created a rational creature and was
than the mere ceremonious salutation attending his entrance. Anxious and
which we enjoyed. When I mingled with other families I distinctly
occurred—an omen, as it were, of my future misery.
resolved every night, when I am not imperatively occupied by my duties, to
“Perhaps it hasn’t one,” Alice ventured to remark.
Without allowing herself time for consideration, and scarcely knowing
Mr. Bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of Wickham’s
degrees the calm and heavenly scene restored me, and I continued my journey
Elizabeth now expected that she would produce a letter for her from
intimidate me.”
her whom he loved. This idea was torture to him. He quickly arranged
“When Colonel Miller’s regiment went away”                           285
she continued, recollecting herself, “as we know none of the
contempt. “I’ve seen a good many little girls in my time, but never
lighthearted gaiety of boyhood. The very winds whispered in soothing
to him, without any reason. It is such a spur to one’s genius, such an
wishes must still be unshaken; but she would not be secure.
these grounds I flatter myself that my present overtures of
and Hatfield, but without any success,--no such people had been seen to
“You!” said the Caterpillar contemptuously. “Who are _you?_”
horror, resolving to wait his approach and then close with him in
Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley. He
she read, with somewhat clearer attention, a relation of events which,
announce publicly; its astounding horror would be looked upon as
began to bud forth on the trees. Happy, happy earth! Fit habitation
grief? He is so gentle, yet so wise; his mind is so cultivated, and
and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken. She hastily put
“It _is_ wonderful,” replied Wickham; “for almost all his actions may be
you shall not deceive me: I know it to be impossible.”
“It was evening when I arrived, and I retired to a hiding-place among
When I recovered I found myself surrounded by the people of the inn; their
addressed her,--
“Oh, it is of no consequence. I shall see her in January. But do you
scattered around; and the solemn silence of this glorious
for his last.
rest, and talked only to each other. Elizabeth preserved as steady a
“She is abominably rude to keep Charlotte out of doors in all this wind.
“With an affectionate smile”                                         385
Elizabeth after the health of her family. She answered him in the usual
at a distance as the islands split and cracked in every direction. We were
make herself uneasy.
“Who do you mean, my dear? I know of nobody that is coming, I am sure,
whether he had been aware of Jane’s attachment, or whether it had
myself without resolving to choose a wife from among his daughters, that
written to Colonel Forster, to inform him of our present arrangements,
of Empires_. I should not have understood the purport of this book had not
She talked on, therefore, without interruption from any of them till
Darcy was fixed in astonishment.
Elizabeth, soon lagged behind, while her sister, panting for breath,
more gentlemanlike manner.’ Those were your words. You know not, you can
“But she does help him on, as much as her nature will allow. If _I_ can
he become the prey, of your accursed vengeance. It is not pity that you
Great God! If for one instant I had thought what might be the hellish
suddenly overspread by a thick cloud, and I took advantage of the moment of
pronounced by his friend Mr. Denny, to whom Lydia eagerly applied, and
“Exactly so,” said Alice.
should have been spared, had not my character required it to be written
“You may depend upon my not mentioning it.”
eagerly, half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was
hearty assent, and indulged their mirth for some time at the expense of
paper.
“You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?”
had arrived the night before, armed with a gun and many pistols,
these fits were seldom interrupted but by paroxysms of anguish and
say voluntarily to Elizabeth,----
“None at all. We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but
Charlotte so _very_ plain; but then she is our particular friend.”
and his companions followed him at some distance. As he was proceeding
behind the cottage; and the girl was also busied, sometimes in the
to spread at Meryton.
skill of the speaker.
His family knew him to be, on all common occasions, a most negligent and
would have prevented his coming down again?”
care to have two full courses.
countenance, and kindly taking my hand, said, “My dearest friend, you
As she spoke, she observed him looking at her earnestly; and the manner
“And what is fifty miles of good road? Little more than half a day’s
improvements it was receiving, he was happily employed until the
She represented to her sister, as forcibly as possible, what she felt on
been worked up by a quick succession of events, the dead calmness of
a temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty after I am
earnest contemplation, and returned to it again before they quitted the
“The father of Safie had been the cause of their ruin. He was a
shone at intervals as the clouds passed from over them; the dark pines
Collins, to be sure, was neither sensible nor agreeable: his society was
with occasional digressions in praise of his own humble abode, and the
“Two offences of a very different nature, and by no means of equal
black, and flowing; his teeth of a pearly whiteness; but these
triumph. The marriage of a daughter, which had been the first object of
These were wild and miserable thoughts, but I cannot describe to you
compassion. Her home and her housekeeping, her parish and her poultry,
acquainted with him; and Mr. Bennet soon assured her that he was rising
bed, but the exertion was too great for him; he fell back and fainted.
perplexed me, occupied as I was by the emotions which the occurrences
the deficiency of his. Her father had been an attorney in Meryton, and
sleep alone that I could taste joy. O blessed sleep! Often, when most
is always so. Those who do not complain are never pitied.”
many ruined castles standing on the edges of precipices, surrounded by
childhood: and how she would gather about her other little children,
better—their child, the innocent and helpless creature bestowed on
I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness. In the morning I went to
passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.
a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer.
respecting his abilities, and grateful for his affectionate treatment of
taught to look forward to it as an event that would certainly take
Astonishment, apprehension, and even horror, oppressed her. She wished
Mr. Collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after it had been quitted
claimed their relationship, would have delighted them all. Elizabeth
As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head,
resentment of his family, or the indignation of the world, if the former
that you hardly ever forgave;--that your resentment, once created, was
think—”
stand according to your representation, you must remember, Miss Bennet,
dare say there may be _one_.”
retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment
in an agony of terror. “Oh, there goes his _precious_ nose!” as an
acquainted with the science of anatomy, but this was not sufficient; I
carriage was not to be had: and as she was no horsewoman, walking was
hopeless and despairing.” She wept.
mantel-piece. It was an historical subject, painted at my father’s
accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to do
a mouse—to a mouse—a mouse—O mouse!”) The Mouse looked at her rather
numerous authors who are the objects of the personal affection, it
towards the valley, as I should soon be encompassed in darkness; but my
One morning, about a week after Bingley’s engagement with Jane had been
angry. But his anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained
soon as they were gone, Mr. Collins began,--
not sixpence of his own. The kindness of my uncle and aunt can never be
quieted my agony and for an interval reconciled me to life. I now related
the sledge which had before appeared; but I have persuaded him to remain in
presumption! And, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the
thinking. Their mutual affection will steady them; and I flatter myself
little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).
take _more_ than nothing.”
I have made it my peculiar study; but at the same time, I have not
“Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter--Darcy must speak for
it contained letters from Geneva, and one from Clerval entreating me to
stronger than their virtue, she could easily conjecture.
of three months he lay on a bed of sickness, incapable of any exertion.
till its success could be known likewise; for, though feeling almost
she could perhaps believe, that remaining partiality for her might
next day, or even until you come, if it will give you pain. My uncle
destiny; listen to my history, and you will perceive how irrevocably it is
touched which formed the mechanism of my being; chord after chord was
From such a connection she could not wonder that he should shrink. The
and I wandered many hours round the confines of the town, uncertain
*      *      *      *      *      *      *
prejudices against modern chemists; I expressed myself in measured
must be the work of her brother, and without looking farther, it was
Charlotte’s reply was spared by the entrance of Jane and Elizabeth.
in his return, and, as Lydia informed you, attended the wedding. He
“This here young lady,” said the Gryphon, “she wants for to know your
“‘No, they are French. But let us change the subject. I am an
something that will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to
“Oh, Lord! yes; there is nothing in that. I shall like it of all things.
words surprised Henry; he at first believed them to be the wanderings
to say which), and they went on for some while in silence.
sister a slight answer, and, in compassion to her nieces, turned the
will not associate with me; but one as deformed and horrible as myself
“I did not know before,” continued Bingley, immediately, “that you were
might arise unpleasant to more than myself.”
hateful. I provided myself with a sum of money, together with a few jewels
attending it ought to be forgotten. You must learn some of my
Wickham. They are gone off together from Brighton. _You_ know him too
Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen,
“Yet I fear that the same feelings now exist that made you so miserable
feelingly. A younger son, you know, must be inured to self-denial and
satisfactory to tell you. Mr. Bingley does not know the whole of his
Human beings, their feelings and passions, would indeed be degraded if such
afterwards visited Mrs. Bingley, and talked of Mrs. Darcy, may be
chanced to find a volume of the works of Cornelius Agrippa. I opened it
her last letter to her friend from Longbourn had by some accident been
Poor Clerval! What must have been his feelings? A meeting, which he
civility, I am thus rejected. But it is of small importance.”
think that his visit to Rosings was to end on the day after the next,
annoyed and in some degree alarmed me. I inquired the way to the inn, but
Catherine’s condescension as he knew not how to admire enough.
your part would cause me any serious uneasiness. Interpret my words
“If you believed it impossible to be true,” said Elizabeth, colouring
acute observer a conviction that, however amiable her temper, her heart
terms, with the modesty and deference due from a youth to his
“And yet what a dear little puppy it was!” said Alice, as she leant
thoughts when the door of my apartment was opened and Mr. Kirwin entered.
exclaimed, “Oh! stars and clouds and winds, ye are all about to mock
peaceful mind and never to allow passion or a transitory desire to
imaginable. He leaves out half his words, and blots the rest.”
globe. Its productions and features may be without example, as the
have received benefit of greater importance.
can prevent it.”
that gentleman’s reputed disposition, when quite a lad, which might
myself peculiarly fortunate in being able to secure his services. I heard
dead to agony and remorse? He,” he continued, pointing to the corpse,
imprudent as to fortune.”
struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger, and
rector of a parish has much to do. In the first place, he must make such
reasoning animal, might refuse to comply with a compact made before her
solemn, apologizing instead of attending, and often moving wrong
at whist, enumerating all the dishes at supper, and repeatedly fearing
THE END
welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and aunt. But, no,” recollecting
made part of it, of which officers Mr. Wickham was sure to be one; and
disagreeable.
of the furniture, or detected the housemaid in negligence; and if she
the most ardent terms for his intended services towards her parent, and
amusement in general, he can have no objection, I am sure, to oblige us
afterwards; but the things should be ordered immediately.”
gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the table proved a novelty
come.”
his abuse of me to others as in his reproaches to myself. After this
the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted
my unfortunate comrades have already found a grave amidst this scene of
brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to the summit of
cheerfulness. “What a place is this that you inhabit, my son!”
beginning the subject.
Miss Austen’s heroes; the only possible competitor being Henry Tilney,
This was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted; and
him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his
Bennet; “and if I were to see you at it, I should take away your bottle
Chapter 17
protectors. I revolved many projects, but that on which I finally
]
everything, was not wholly without hope that Darcy might yet be
in every other respect. He had come forth from the hands of God a
swallowed up in the whirlwinds of its rage. Let your compassion be
to take the hint, being well aware that a serious dispute must be the
prevailed on to get out.
“I am sure she did not listen.”
high white steeple of the town met my eyes. I alighted and was
childhood; but my general state of feeling was a torpor in which a
Elizabeth to Hunsford. She had not at first thought very seriously of
intercourse of my fellow-creatures, and rendered me unsocial; but
among his intimate acquaintance. With _them_ he is remarkably
to himself in an undertone,
Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, “and just as I was thinking I
braces my nerves and fills me with delight. Do you understand this
Elizabeth had caught the scarlet fever; her illness was severe, and she was
carefully traced the windings of the land and hailed a steeple which I at
Would to Heaven that anything could be either said or done on my part,
pronounced to be very bad indeed,--a mixture of pride and impertinence:
fellow men; this barrier was sealed with the blood of William and
easy. I know my own strength, and I shall never be embarrassed again by
I am preparing to depart. I am going to unexplored regions, to “the
she watched her progress through the several stanzas with an impatience
courageous, possessed of a cultivated as well as of a capacious mind, whose
Elizabeth. “It must be something particular to take him there at this
resentment gave way, either to her affection for him, or her curiosity
library, in my nightcap and powdering gown, and give as much trouble as
journey across the mountainous ices of the ocean, amidst cold that few
“I admire all my three sons-in-law highly,” said he. “Wickham, perhaps,
thus far and dragged your captain to the shame of a defeat merely to prove
Agrippa and Paracelsus, but without the contempt that M. Krempe had
“His father was an excellent man,” said Mrs. Gardiner.
“But he paid her not the smallest attention till her grandfather’s death
cannot contest the inestimable benefit which I shall confer on all
tremble. Dear Victor, banish these dark passions. Remember the
that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she
schoolboys of fifteen. It is true that I have thought more and that my
pronounced a few sounds, and the fair creature, leaving her work, knelt
attached to these young men; and know them to be so much attached to me!
“Certainly,” replied Elizabeth, “there are such people, but I hope I am
in which one must fall.”
some family objections on the part of my cousin, she would never give
repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love
fish she had won; and Mr. Collins, in describing the civility of Mr. and
well as of Mr. Darcy. _His_ eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned
entrance of the cemetery where William, Elizabeth, and my father
he first came into Hertfordshire last year, I thought how likely it was
Such relief, however, as it was in her power to afford, by the practice
cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures
expressed herself on every point exactly as she might have foreseen. She
“I should not mind anything at all.”
opinion of Mr. and Mrs. Collins’s happiness; and that in speaking of
On perceiving me, the stranger addressed me in English, although with a
back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment’s delay
it. There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind,
words, or persuade her to describe her felicity in a less audible
“I must think your language too strong in speaking of both,” replied
a prophetic feeling, I felt my heart sink within me. But I concealed my
comply. After so long a period of an absorbing melancholy that
was now enough recovered to echo whatever his son-in-law said, in a
have answered you; you may torture me, but I will never consent.”
R.W.
asks but to see you, but to be assured that you are well; and not a
done, however, and it was done for the best. On this subject I have
puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that her idea of the
CHAPTER V.
courage, therefore, I pressed on, and in two days arrived at a wretched
Soon after this he inquired if I thought that the breaking up of the
“This was then the reward of my benevolence! I had saved a human being
Darcy may hug himself.”
birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close
southwards together. This letter in a degree recalled me to life, and
“With three younger sisters grown up,” replied Elizabeth, smiling, “your
soon as she possibly could. She was no sooner in possession of it, than
betrayed the innocent to death and ignominy? I could not sustain the
devoted and wondrous nature that the worldly-minded teach us to look for only
more; and though a day seldom passed in which Elizabeth did not account
vessel and am occupied in collecting my sailors; those whom I have
London
he sought his own enjoyment in feelings and passions from the
spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of being with
CHAPTER IV.
The gentlemen did approach: and when Mr. Wickham walked into the room,
Justine was called on for her defence. As the trial had proceeded, her
Mrs. Gardiner about this time reminded Elizabeth of her promise
queer, won’t you?”
Wickham, Lydia, were all forgotten. Jane was beyond competition her
She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited till
My notion was that you had been
herself of having caused the death of my brother, and that made her
minutes. My mother was taken ill immediately, and the whole house in
the delight of Mrs. Bennet, and the mortification of Kitty, are scarcely
serpents! There’s no pleasing them!”
thanked my friend from my heart, but I did not speak. I saw plainly
Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
were his manners, she had never, in the whole course of their
I hoped to intercept him before he should reach the beach. With new
anything I can describe; and your wit and vivacity, I think, must be
proud of it: for she thought, and rightly too, that very few little
“But to expose the former faults of any person, without knowing what
Mrs. Bennet, with great civility, begged her Ladyship to take some
good a grace as she could. She was not the better pleased with his
she herself had been barbarously used by them all; and on these two
and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen.
not many of her acquaintance whom she did not prefer, his coming would
interesting object to all my acquaintance, were I distractedly in love
for the first of benefits, and whom she regarded herself with an
“I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as
every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to set the example
been, was very great: but they obligingly satisfied it with the same
swallow a small quantity. As soon as he showed signs of life we
he spoke.
_he_ should stand his ground; yet he had avoided the Netherfield ball
made an offer to Lizzy, and she will not have him.”
introduce his friend, Mr. Wickham, who had returned with him the day
July 7th, 17—.
I weep to think that, borne down as you are by the cruellest
dear: she is only a child!”
to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.”
ten words to her through the whole of Saturday: and though they were at
Down the Rabbit-Hole
slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hastily
was all done very well. She had also to anticipate how her visit would
attentions and excellent acquaintance Meryton had procured them.
When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
“Elizabeth Lavenza.
wise; and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled, she had all the
You have made me wretched beyond expression. You have left me no power
of an old woman near the spot and endeavoured, but in vain, to restore it
one so utterly inexperienced as I was.
evening. After tea, Mr. Bennet retired to the library, as was his
dearest Jane, you cannot seriously imagine that, because Miss Bingley
must not let your fancy run away with you. You have sense, and we all
passion. She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be
melancholy beyond expression; he sighed frequently, and once his father
choice. The next morning, however, made an alteration; for in a quarter
follows:--
home —the sublime shapes of the mountains, the changes of the seasons,
appear to others that what you were or might have been was not
with my family in Geneva, the death of my mother, and my departure for
“But perhaps you would like to read it”                              370
was more entirely occupied in attending him; her means of subsistence
me whether you’re a little girl or a serpent?”
brother”—tears came into his eyes as he spoke—“but
loud and long-continued. Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke and asked the
“This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not agree. I
descending to such malicious revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity as
apparatus from my view. He had also changed my apartment; for he
such spasms in my side, and pains in my head, and such beatings at my
“He likes to have his own way very well,” replied Colonel Fitzwilliam.
respectable pleasures; and Elizabeth admired the command of countenance
to anybody. People who suffer as I do from nervous complaints can have
situation and temper. Consider Mr. Collins’s respectability, and
of pleasure was lost in shame. She felt anew the justice of Mr. Darcy’s
“What do you mean, Mr. Bennet, by talking in this way? You promised me
suddenly got up, and saying to Kitty,--
cautioning you is as follows:--We have reason to imagine that his aunt,
“There certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of those
[Illustration]
good health, and in as tolerable spirits as could be expected, after the
discovery of your favourite’s guilt; but really, considering his
(In which the cook and the baby joined):
Why did you confess? But do not mourn, dear girl. Do not fear. I
I need them most to support my spirits. I love you very tenderly.
But as Elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such expectation she
means unwilling to preside at his table; nor was Mrs. Hurst, who had
inquiry on that side of London, Colonel F. came on into Hertfordshire,
“Indeed, Mr. Collins, all praise of me will be unnecessary. You must
before their approach was announced by the door-bell, and shortly
dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to Mrs. Hurst and
Elizabeth, this struggle may occasion the poignant misery which you appear
“I had _not!_” cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.
Her sympathy was ours; her smile, her soft voice, the sweet glance of
exceedingly. If what I have hitherto said can appear to you in the form
engaged with their children, was now put an end to by the approach of
her no more; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at
repeating to him some part of what she had been saying to his sister.
“He did not succeed. They remained confined for five months before the
*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 11 ***
placed at the windows of some of the cottages, allured my appetite. One
was unformed in mind; I was dependent on none and related to none.
twelve, as is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at
means to justify my poor guiltless Justine. Alas! who is safe, if she
everybody.”
Justine also was a girl of merit and possessed qualities which promised
Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject. Day after
which had made him prevent his friend’s marrying her sister, and which
be noticed presently, she has been satisfied here with the perfectly
CHAPTER XLV.
seemed a gulf impassable between them. Had Lydia’s marriage been
observing my friends. When they had retired to rest, if there was any
up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed.
situations with honour and reputation. He was respected by all who
kindness and gentleness which I had entertained but a few moments
“I have found out,” said he, “by a singular accident, that there is now
him, and Mrs. Gardiner would have been highly gratified by her niece’s
you are without.”
towards the setting sun. I passed three days in these rambles and at
last at Pemberley.
Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their shoulders,
If he whom you mourn still lived, still would he be the object, again would
of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were over, he
establishment formed for her in London; and last summer she went with
CHAPTER XIII
with Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley, and the lady with whom she lived in
felt, and if I could _feel_ gratitude, I would now thank you. But I
pile the glacier or retire to the inaccessible peaks of the mountains of
will take it on myself.”
his discourse the meaning of these unusual appearances.
“Yes, indeed; his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one of
“Now, I do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and
seemingly incommoded by the burden, a young man met her, whose
so easily turned from your design? Did you not call this a glorious
dying away like a nightingale of the woods.
With such kind of histories of their parties and good jokes did Lydia,
dreadful bitterness of spirit.”
the air we breathe. They have acquired new and almost unlimited powers;
to meet them, they quickly perceived, in token of the coachman’s
“Did not you think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed myself uncommonly well
Ireland and never alluded to them or suffered me to speak of my
down, both of you, and don’t speak a word till I’ve finished.”
returning to Netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not
But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures
muddle their slates’ll be in before the trial’s over!” thought Alice.
trade, and within view of his own warehouses, could have been so
good-humoured as Lydia. But you are always giving _her_ the preference.”
experienced from Lady Catherine. She had been graciously pleased to
which had at length closed her eyes. She could not yet recover from the
as Mr. Bingley was incomprehensible.
from thence to gather promise of new hopes, I was seized by remorse and
rather offended, and therefore checked her laugh. Miss Bingley warmly
blackness overcast the approaching sunshine. At these moments I took
nothing about it.”
for those casual errors, under which she would endeavour to class what
to find her way out. “I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by
let me reveal my tale, and you will dash the cup from your lips!”
“Thank you,” said Lydia; “for if you did, I should certainly tell you
but even this partial communication gave her a great deal of concern,
introduce it.”
his real character. It adds even another motive. My excellent father
and perhaps respected. But even if I were condemned to suffer on the
changed for Mabel! I’ll try and say ‘_How doth the little_—’” and she
by the Gardiners and Jane; but, as he took up his abode with the
which certainly was not seldom, she involuntarily turned her eye on
feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again. In her own past
and he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellence of its
prey.
is only now delayed until the weather shall permit my embarkation. The
Elizabeth turned away to hide a smile.
“Soles and eels, of course,” the Gryphon replied rather impatiently:
tearing me from his father’s feet. I awoke exhausted, and finding that
Mr. Kirwin, on hearing this evidence, desired that I should be taken into
placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready. After an affectionate
out. However, I recollected afterwards, that if he _had_ been prevented
diversified by little beyond the walks to Meryton, sometimes dirty and
desponding spirits; but he soon felt that a prison cannot be the abode of
Alice, “and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it
of shame was severe. The justice of the charge struck her too forcibly
thing she ever did. She seems perfectly happy, however; and, in a
all shake her purpose by his attempt at persuasion.
dearest, unhappy._
as their acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find. They could
wedding-night!_” Such was my sentence, and on that night would the
beneath,” the consciousness that motives are nearly always mixed, and
Mr. Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for many years
“I _have_ tasted eggs, certainly,” said Alice, who was a very truthful
“As soon as I was convinced that no assistance could save any part of
How altered every thing might be during that time! One sudden and
idea of the pain she gives me by her continual reflections on him. But I
“I am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!” cried
otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a
acquaintance, and the evening was spent in the satisfactions of an
probably would blame her; and though her resolution was not to be
have withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed
five minutes seemed to be giving her more of his attention. He found her
with a look of doubt.
operations might be incessantly baffled, and at last my work be
returned to the house. He was not there. We returned again, with
of these people, and I longed to join them, but dared not. I
matter. It appears to me so very unlikely that any young man should form
[Illustration]
It is past; I am returning to England. I have lost my hopes of utility
their intending to go off? Had Colonel Forster seen Denny himself?”
“My dearest sister, now be, _be_ serious. I want to talk very seriously.
frequently recurring. The united efforts of his two unfeeling sisters,
hitherto declined, was now much restored; and my spirits, when
“If we are ever able to learn what Wickham’s debts have been,” said
would be highly expedient to wait on her at Pemberley the following
dependence than on our patronage, and who had been brought up to expect
one pursuit. It was a most beautiful season; never did the fields
labours. I requested his advice concerning the books I ought to
light of their lantern they found that he had fallen on the body of a man,
of the neighbourhood in general was beyond the Collinses’ reach. This,
“I thank you, but all that you mention is nothing to me; on the whole
taste, accompanied by a moderate fortune, could afford.
both of these when my creation should be complete.
a thousand sights of beauty.
“A knot!” said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking
“Yes; and I told him we should not be able to keep our engagement.
_were_ excited by his marrying me, it would not give me one moment’s
This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a
offended!”
while the storm lasted, watching its progress with curiosity and delight.
“Are you then safe—and Elizabeth—and Ernest?”
admiration for about half the evening, till his manners gave a disgust
sought my own apartment. I was alone; none were near me to dissipate
for so young a person. Pray, what is your age?”
should become a student at the university of Ingolstadt. I had
spirits; and immediately accounting for it herself, by supposing that
“And your assurance of it, I suppose, carried immediate conviction to
“Yes, it _is_ his business!” said Five, “and I’ll tell him—it was for
his five sisters and a cousin. And when the party entered the
fortunately having it in our power to introduce you to very superior
plains. Its fair lakes reflect a blue and gentle sky, and when
them. Smiles decked the face of Mrs. Bennet, as the carriage drove up to
[Illustration]
“Exceedingly well. I should have considered it as part of my duty, and
“My mode of life in my hovel was uniform. During the morning I
they should have opposed their brother’s. What sister would think
“I’m afraid I don’t know one,” said Alice, rather alarmed at the
what path I should pursue. As night approached I found myself at the
not you fear the fierce vengeance of my arm wreaked on your miserable head?
[Illustration:
well-being. This was my duty, but there was another still paramount to
being built upon secure foundations, and so worthy of my consideration.
“that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine
sometimes, after rowing into the middle of the lake, I left the boat to
your surprise, my son, when you expected a happy and glad welcome, to
guess your wishes nor minister to them with the care and affection of
necessity of constant company for her friends. But really, and upon my
her attention almost entirely on her sister and Mr. Bingley; and the
she could see how seldom they spoke to each other, and how formal and
be four thousand miles down, I think—” (for, you see, Alice had learnt
general assurances of his affection for her and all her family, told her
that all was safe, her wit flowed along.
directly.”
wonder, “but to us the discovery we have made completes our misery. No
“You will repay me entirely if you do not discompose yourself, but get
preference which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right
“I never heard of ‘Uglification,’” Alice ventured to say. “What is it?”
Elizabeth here felt herself called on to say something in vindication of
permitted to come to Ingolstadt. “You may easily believe,” said
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she was
thought of herself, “I wish the creatures wouldn’t be so easily
course southwards.
being the mistress of Hunsford Parsonage, and of assisting to form a
some of the principal professors. Chance—or rather the evil
aunt,” she rapturously cried, “what delight! what felicity! You give me
phenomenon as Darcy has of the conditions of his unregenerate state,
“They were learning to draw,” the Dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing
however, at her having any such fears now, because if he had at all
decided tone: “tell her something about the games now.”
The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they
“The child still struggled and loaded me with epithets which carried
sacrifice the whole human race.”
wanted in the farm, Mr. Bennet, are not they?”
expected.
take care not to outrun their income. _They_ will never be distressed
After a slight repose, during which the spirits of the dead hovered
“The obsequious civility”                                            466
the meantime he hoped to procure some respectable employment in a
“As I read, however, I applied much personally to my own feelings and
But Jane could think with certainty on only one point,--that Mr.
instantly abandoned his pursuit. He had already bought a farm with his
“He could be still amiable, still pleasing to my uncle and aunt, when he
accumulated ice, which, through the silent working of immutable laws,
love with only a few days before.”
“I swear,” he cried, “by the sun, and by the blue sky of
banish from her thoughts that continual breach of conjugal obligation
preferred your elder sister to any other young woman in the country. But
“No one did at first; but several circumstances came out, that have
Miss Bennet’s mind gave such a glow of sweet animation to her face, as
of my consent, but I felt that there was some justice in his argument.
novel which excelled in pathetic or humorous character, or which
repaid?”
know Mr. Bingley?”
not reflect that _you_ are the cause of its excess. If any being felt
each other the balm of sisterly consolation.”
“Upon my word I say no more _here_ than I might say in any house in the
Her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy. Jane resolutely
“Off with their heads!” and the procession moved on, three of the
died about five years ago; and his attachment to Mr. Wickham was to the
another man for you!”
no; I feel he may defy us there. And as to laughter, we will not expose
it was but the other day that I recommended another young person, who
and till Elizabeth recollected that there might be other family livings
you will be inclined to take immediate advantage of.’ Have you any idea,
But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of
mother, was more than a duty; it was a necessity, a
proper thing to love them. And in the sect--fairly large and yet
of her brain were removed, her other sister, from whose disposition
the ironic. From no other point of view is he open to any reproach,
and above it rose Mont Blanc, in awful majesty. I remained in a recess
CHAPTER VIII.
Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than Elizabeth; and, though
world.”
me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make _me_ your
suppose, the light poured in upon me again. I walked and, I believe,
discoveries of recent inquirers for the dreams of forgotten alchemists.
and pleasant appearance, but after my late dearly bought experience, I
“Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we have thought him,” said her
“The letter shall certainly be burnt, if you believe it essential to the
heartless creator! You had endowed me with perceptions and passions
kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking: “Dear, dear! How
Game, or any other dish?
Bennet began repeating her thanks to Mr. Bingley for his kindness to
the conversation from a subject that was so annoying to me.
should not have known her again.”
interruption in your correspondence as a proof that your other duties
urgent business calls us home immediately. Conceal the unhappy truth as
“There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular
“My dear madam,” replied he, “let us be for ever silent on this point.
]
But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her. Lydia--the
Nor am I ashamed of the feelings I related. They were natural and just.
where their two selves only were concerned, was soliciting the good
might occasionally spend a morning with her, without any danger of
was undisturbed by thoughts which during the preceding year had pressed
feel it!
world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his
to get a rich husband, or any husband, I dare say I should adopt it. But
moments without saying a word, he suddenly recollected himself, and took
as welcome to me as either of them.”
you follow not too tardily, a dead hare; eat and be refreshed. Come on, my
could not bear such suspense; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper,
at parting with her that Miss Bingley was obliged to convert the offer
blue Mediterranean appeared, and by a strange chance, I saw the fiend
things said than I am going to say. But he is an ugly fellow! I am glad
clear and ample, her blue eyes cloudless, and her lips and the moulding of
to books as well as to men and women; and in the case of the not very
ill-will for being justified in your advice to me last May, which,
enough to make a very low bow, and take his seat without saying a word;
“Did you say ‘What a pity!’?” the Rabbit asked.
“Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all
wretched; how, then, must I be hated, who am miserable beyond all
the work of my thrice-accursed hands! Ye weep, unhappy ones, but these
occupied in arranging the cottage, the old man walked before the
“Oh,” cried Miss Bingley, “Charles writes in the most careless way
Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood
given to his fellow professor. He heard with attention the little
“Yes; but he seemed to like his second better.”
here?”
“Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce
weep with bitterness, “are you always to be unhappy? My dear friend,
expect that whenever she came into Kent again she would be staying
on the open sea.”
“You excel so much in the dance, Miss Eliza, that it is cruel to deny me
“Well, I shan’t go, at any rate,” said Alice: “besides, that’s not a
sorrowful tone; “at least there’s no room to grow up any more _here_.”
the least, and who, she observed to Mrs. Collins, was a very genteel,
this circumstance seemed to unite them only closer in bonds of devoted
boat, with his holiday mates, on an expedition of discovery up his
curiosity. Finding the door open, I entered. An old man sat in it,
a beam of benevolence and sweetness that I never saw equalled. But he
“You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
wretchedness of my desolated home; the reality came on me as a new, and
Thus spoke my prophetic soul, as, torn by remorse, horror, and despair,
“Oh, you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general.
everything will be well.”
was so little to be trusted.”
him think really ill of her.
“Do not make yourself uneasy, my love. Wherever you and Jane are known,
what the next sentence might bring, was incapable of attending to the
the information they might give me on the subject in which my interest
an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary. In his present
“No, my dear; I think not. I have great hopes of finding him quite the
who, a few years ago, loved and beloved by all, had no sorrow or care.
she was nine feet high.
letters always were, looked over her, and read it likewise. It was as
pleasure.”
so much in love as to wish to marry her in spite of all the objections
age. Howsoever that may be, you are grievously to be pitied; in
me on this subject for ever.”
extreme debility, I resolved to sail directly towards the town, as a place
on whom she had such anxious designs, or satisfy the appetite and pride
For anything tougher than suet;
“I believe, ma’am, I may safely promise you _never_ to dance with him.”
sudden restoration to healthy conditions than the shock of Elizabeth’s
“Perhaps it doesn’t understand English,” thought Alice; “I daresay it’s
little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her appearance
take a proper direction.”
“Excuse my interference; it was kindly meant.”
drive you to desperation, and not instigate you to virtue. I also am
scheme, every part of it would have been perfect.
damp substance that covered the ground.
relations, and reflected how materially the credit of both must be hurt
fatigue, I am sure, but I did not think it right for either of them.
“This reading had puzzled me extremely at first, but by degrees I
to see a letter that has been lying here some days for you; it is from
themselves. There is not one of his tenants or servants but what will
They entered the woods, and, bidding adieu to the river for a while,
night, which I spent, cold and wet, in the open air. But I did not
rather a severe tone,
Reuss. But when he entered, misery and despair alone welcomed him. Beaufort
had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring his
“Oh, you mean Jane, I suppose, because he danced with her twice. To be
pedestrian tour in the environs of Ingolstadt, that I might bid a
the great consolation of his sister, who considered it as the only
inviting. In that respect his friend had greatly the advantage. Bingley
can I describe my sensations on beholding it? I feel yet parched with
was going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out
After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and
“—likely to win, that it’s hardly worth while finishing the game.”
Ingolstadt. I remembered, shuddering, the mad enthusiasm that hurried me on
of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse anything, which he
Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she could not be in such
which are instituted by the Church of England. As a clergyman,
there, it is all very well. I would go and see her if I could have the
fortune, though ample for her situation in life, could but ill supply
Their brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom she could
the work of muscles and arteries beneath; his hair was of a lustrous
wrinkled his lips as he gazed on me, where I sat fulfilling the task
Of Mr. Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well; and, as far
little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions,
and Mrs. Hurst, principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and
“God knows,” she said, “how entirely I am innocent. But I
of himself. She read over her aunt’s commendation of him again and
Yet his manners are so conciliating and gentle that the sailors are all
writing, I would not give up Mr. Collins’s correspondence for any
there could be _no_ mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than
was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion. I do not at
place.’
may ask questions which _I_ shall not choose to answer.”
been well looked after. I always thought they were very unfit to have
trouble of saying as little as possible.”
“Several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage. The
Mr. Darcy’s letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart. She
less certain is it, that I cannot accuse myself of having really done
Justine was the most grateful little creature in the world: I do not
of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that she never knew
very bad! It is almost past belief. And poor Mr. Darcy! dear Lizzy,
Such words, you may imagine, strongly excited my curiosity; but the
Jane instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at such
Mrs. Bennet and her daughters then departed, and Elizabeth returned
till after the departure of the former. He did not leave his name,
thoughts and endeavoured to arrive at some conclusion. Alas! To me
charm in the banks of this divine river that I never before saw equalled.
acquainted with other customs than those of my native country. My
introduced themselves, I can hardly tell, but I believe in about half
The day passed much as the day before had done. Mrs. Hurst and Miss
summer, and although not so warm as in England, the southern gales,
he could conjecture very little about it. He must go somewhere, but
could flatter herself with such an expectation. Surprise was the least
their being followed by a letter from him, had ended in nothing.
in the room.
mockery of a soul still more monstrous. My father still desired to
such as no language can describe.
turning to Alice as it spoke.
“Compose yourself,” said Clerval, who observed my change of
himself at her feet. He was anxious to avoid the notice of his cousins,
can do no more, whatever happens. What _will_ become of me?”
comprehend.
mine of love to bestow them upon me. My mother’s tender caresses and
where she felt beyond the reach of Lady Catherine’s curiosity.
remark, “it’s a vegetable. It doesn’t look like one, but it is.”
wickedly destroyed all romantic interest by expressly admitting that
his demeanour at the sudden meeting in the grounds of Pemberley. Had he
myself use the word “narrow” in connection with her. If her world is a
explanation, by restoring Bingley to all her former good opinion,
therefore say nothing about it) your uncle would most readily have
and caused a pleasant motion among the trees as we approached the
have discovered myself to the rest of his family, when they should have
them over!”
fellow creatures. At one time the moon, which had before been clear, was
there is an express come for master from Mr. Gardiner? He has been here
His countenance expressed sympathy and compassion; he drew a chair close to
her equally avoid the name of his friend: but now she would no longer
benevolent mind. Her health, and even the tranquillity of her hitherto
to conceal, by incessant employment, the feelings which were divided
“Indeed I have, sir,” was her answer. “She is a great deal too ill to be
who sought to destroy the saviour of his child? Nay, these are virtuous
_GEORGE SAINTSBURY._
tone. “Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I’m sure she’s the best
Chapter 16
company of his dear friends at Netherfield, or his dignified relations
in the beginning of the month of August of the same year.
throwing off this last encumbrance of mystery. “And then,” said she, “if
brother’s recommendation was enough to insure her favour: his judgment
“You’ll get used to it in time,” said the Caterpillar; and it put the
had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit, but his plan did
where the remains of Frankenstein still lie. I must arise and examine.
remarks of the two ladies and Mr. Darcy; the latter of whom, however,
give more information; and though she was not very sanguine in expecting
instrument which produced the divine sounds that had enchanted me in
seemed to improve on you, and I believe you thought her rather pretty at
to the living, of his receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three
brought my work near to a conclusion.
prevailed on to make his fortune. The congratulatory letter which
“Do not ask me,” cried I, putting my hands before my eyes, for I
of the rock, gazing on this wonderful and stupendous scene. The sea,
“Hate you! I was angry, perhaps, at first, but my anger soon began to
her arm and a handkerchief thrown across her face and neck, I might have
perhaps poor Mary was rather the scapegoat of the sins of blue stockings
miserable.”
coming frequently before breakfast, and always remaining till after
“I beg your pardon;--one knows exactly what to think.”
father, their indignation would hardly have found expression in their
on having lately saved a friend from the inconveniences of a most
dismission from your daughter’s lips instead of your own; but we are all
removal from the ----shire, as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do. But
business. Never since reading Jane’s second letter had she entertained a
the desired intelligence was dilatory and unsatisfactory; besides, I
immediate assistance, and we shall be off, I hope, in half an hour. But
the best method of recommending herself; but angry people are not always
that the authority of a servant, who had known him since he was four
and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth, Safie, Agatha,
you,” (she might well say this), “to go on crying in this way! Stop
and with a full heart thanked my guiding spirit for conducting me in
Bennet could not assert to be wholly impossible, the former continued
pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had
And when time shall have softened your despair, new and dear objects of
never in my life saw anyone so much altered as she is since the winter.
exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother and Lydia, that she
painful degree; the fall of a leaf startled me, and I shunned my fellow
believing it are briefly these:--It does not appear to me that my hand
not afford me respite from thought and misery; my dreams presented a
perfect as plan could be.
we shall very soon settle it with her, I am sure.”
I was carried out of the room in strong convulsions.
know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that _somebody_ ought to
pride and insolence.
examined his patient, said, as might be supposed, that she had caught a
“You shall hear, then--but prepare for something very dreadful. The
quite gone.
CHAPTER XL.
glad there _was_ no one listening, this time, as it didn’t sound at all
having been made by an English philosopher, the knowledge of which was
wondered at their coming, and thought them very wrong to give so much
life, or become the scourge of your fellow creatures and the author of
endowed me with strength and composure; it moulded my feelings and
first circles. Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not
This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied,
with those friends whom I am on the point of meeting.’
was, you would not recognise me in this state of degradation. Despondency
“We must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side,” said
were my sensations, who can describe those of Henry? He felt as if he had
repugnance to the task which was enjoined me. I found that I could not
them to me almost as imposing and interesting as truth.
“Have you any other objection,” said Elizabeth, “than your belief of my
that will atone for such wretchedness as this! Let me never see either
her authoritative manner, and the rest from the pride of her nephew, who
Let us flatter ourselves that_ I _may be the survivor;” and his inquiry
repressed her bitter tears. She embraced Elizabeth and said in a voice
time here; and Miss Darcy is always down for the summer months.”
a perfect understanding between the parties could justify her in
joy it was to shed their blood and to revel in their groans. How they
reached the carriage, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were half a quarter of a
has a tendency to weaken your affections and to destroy your taste for
might be his as soon as it became vacant. There was also a legacy of
reserve and want of proper consideration, that Wickham’s character
written five days ago. The beginning contained an account of all their
visitors left them, capable of considering the last half hour with some
determined to seek that justice which I vainly attempted to gain from
way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but
old man returned to the cottage, and the youth, with tools different
and then I shall be happy again, even after the sad death of my little
within. Strange and harrowing must be his story, frightful the storm which
“Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with him
sister, or that I rejoice in my success. Towards _him_ I have been
She was confident of having performed her duty; and to fret over
he entered the corps, she was ready enough to admire him; but so we all
them, indeed, excited a lively attention. The suspicions which had just
inquiry as to the manner in which her time had passed at Hunsford, she
listened to him—that I observed the countenance of Felix was
were the principal inhabitants. They found Mr. Bennet still up. With a
Colonel Fitzwilliam’s manners were very much admired at the Parsonage,
Mr. Gardiner left Longbourn on Sunday; on Tuesday, his wife received a
bed!” On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left
doing it should be given so soon was such an instance of Lady
His sisters were very anxious for his having an estate of his own; but
mental torment in bodily exercise. But the overflowing misery I now felt,
“Call the first witness,” said the King; and the White Rabbit blew
Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.
own words. So far each recital confirmed the other; but when she came to
gave him pretty nearly the same account of my former pursuits as I had
had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he had been
raise me from the dust by this kindness; and I trust that, by your aid,
cause of their summons, reading the two letters aloud, and dwelling on
my society on him as I could spare. He besought me, therefore, to
Man! You may hate, but beware! Your hours will pass in dread and misery,
Mr. Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred
“He is perfectly well-behaved, polite, and unassuming,” said her uncle.
the spot where he had disappeared, and we followed the track with
you in the library, you know, that I should never speak to you again,
haste, and come down this moment.”
his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter.”
“That is exactly the question which I expected you to ask. A lady’s
“A barrowful of _what?_” thought Alice; but she had not long to doubt,
condition precarious and full of terror. Had I right, for my own benefit,
the sort of happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to his
considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying with, as
shall need no other happiness.
and ridiculous, contained much good sense and solid reasoning.
nature; the past was blotted from my memory, the present was tranquil,
was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the
her celestial eyes, were ever there to bless and animate us. She was
neighbours in Meryton.
upon Elizabeth’s seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed looks, about
I thought, that the same cause should produce such opposite effects! I
five being thus removed, Mrs. Bennet sat looking and winking at
park paling was still the boundary on one side, and she soon passed one
thousand in addition to her own settled upon _her_, and his
William. I wish you could see him; he is very tall of his age, with
her was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner
Collins; but _I_ do not think there would have been any fun in it. Lord!
necessary to be made, but perhaps not the more easily kept, because she
havoc and destruction around me, and then to have sat down and enjoyed
“No, that I am sure I shall not: and I think it was very impertinent of
and the voice struck me as one that I had heard during my sufferings.
powers of application. He looks upon study as an odious fetter; his
are unremitted; but they will not restore my beloved William!
till next week,’ you would probably do it--you would probably not
nature. In spite of the intense labour and wonderful discoveries of modern
occurrences of the day. What chiefly struck me was the gentle manners
had worn when I first beheld the woods and the lovely moon. Yet I did
brought before the court that decides on life and death. The grand
variety of thought, reconsidering events, determining probabilities, and
every other man, that all her good sense, and all her attention to the
unpleasant recollections.
“‘Are they Germans?’
felicity in so unusual a form, that she still was occasionally nervous
Anxiety on Jane’s behalf was another prevailing concern; and Mr. Darcy’s
London. Georgiana’s reception of them was very civil, but attended with
“Well, I can’t show it you myself,” the Mock Turtle said: “I’m too
established as a sweet girl; and their brother felt authorized by such
“Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality,
[Illustration]
Heading to Chapter XXXII.                                            221
of threatening, I am content to reason with you. I am malicious because I
made that I could thus resist so many shocks, which, like the turning of
suitableness, and excessively generous and disinterested on his own
“_Whenever she spoke in a low voice_”
assassinated, and the murderer escapes; he walks about the world free,
]
in questions of eating and drinking.
His plan did not vary on seeing them. Miss Bennet’s lovely face
daughter, she could almost have joined in Maria’s astonishment at her
and permit him to enter on the profession which he has selected.
the subject by saying, “But tell me all and everything about it which I
“My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these. They will
owe to his friendship and
that the subject might never be mentioned to him again. The principal
the accomplishment of the wishes which had been unfolded in her former
condemned, my confessor has besieged me; he threatened and menaced,
involved in all your sorrow and disgrace. Let me advise you, then,
am miserable. Am I not shunned and hated by all mankind? You, my creator,
unaffected, though not quite so chatty. Jane was anxious that no
who I _was_ when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been
they beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia, and hailed with
water. Sometimes, with my sails set, I was carried by the wind; and
moment that some of the gentlemen would enter the room: she wished, she
tones, yet I pronounced such words as I understood with tolerable ease.
stood in the same place where I had last embraced my father before my
and impenetrable shades, which would cause a gloomy and mournful appearance
respect, Lydia need not have been indebted to her uncle for whatever of
his brother-in-law’s entreaty that he would return to his family and
their party in the drawing-room. The loo table, however, did not appear.
Before, dark and opaque bodies had surrounded me, impervious to my
_your_ temper!” “Hold your tongue, Ma!” said the young Crab, a little
guilty there is no peace. The agonies of remorse poison the luxury there is
“Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deeply. I heard of the
cause. I was bewildered, in a cloud of wonder and horror. The death
from labour—the old man played on his guitar, and the children
charming man? I am sure my sisters must all envy me. I only hope they
“Would Mr. Darcy then consider the rashness of your original intention
spurned and deserted me, anger returned, a rage of anger, and unable to
When Lydia went away she promised to write very often and very minutely
not be obliged to go into company more than she liked. It was necessary
persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering
who have been kept aloof by Lydia’s folly.”
I’ll just see what this bottle does. I do hope it’ll make me grow large
shameful boast of what misery he had been able to inflict gave her a
acknowledged lovers talked and laughed; the unacknowledged were silent.
pleasure. I started up and beheld a radiant form rise from among the
phraseology and manners, so that even now she often reminds me of her.
every morning would bring some letter, either from Lydia or her father,
thither three or four times a week, to pay their duty to their aunt, and
wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I’m
out, and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before.
of fretfulness than usual to the accents of Kitty. As for Mary, she was
with reality, and I should not wonder if many of these words and actions
wrongfully; every one knows that; no one believes it, surely, Ernest?”
“He is the best landlord, and the best master,” said she, “that ever
the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my father to be of service
she were married to him to-morrow, I should think she had as good a
accept this offer, yet he looked forward to the probability of the
the very moment of my alighting!”
“Yes, madam,” said Mrs. Bennet, delighted to speak to a Lady Catherine.
interest, if not quite so tender, at least as reasonable and just, as
did, whether he would think it proper to join in the evening’s
might at least have preserved the respectability of his daughters, even
say with the housekeeper, that though some people may call him proud,
their supposed marriage, and planning his happiness in such an alliance.
kindness, his affection, and his many letters; we are sincerely
Lady Catherine hesitated for a moment, and then replied,--
procured; and thus I was cut off from my chief article of maintenance.
remembered too well the treatment I had suffered the night before from
she read it, and saw her dwelling intently on some particular passages.
stranger, and I was also disconcerted on perceiving the frowning and
to inflict this curse upon everlasting generations? I had before been moved
covered it carefully with dry wood and leaves and placed wet branches
lead them into fresh dangers, after they might happily have surmounted
others have secured, I believe, a considerable party for it._ Sense and
CHAPTER II.
relieved the burden of my mysterious woe.
“Yes, I think you’d better leave off,” said the Gryphon: and Alice was
Thus I returned home, and entering the house, presented myself to the
approach, he ceased to utter exclamations of grief and horror and sprung
steady gravity.
‘The path of my departure was free,’ and there was none to lament my
“The pleasant sunshine and the pure air of day restored me to some
in the most imminent peril, but as we could only remain passive, my chief
running on the song, “I’d have said to the porpoise, ‘Keep back,
Collins was at leisure to look around him and admire, and he was so much
a holiday?”
Chapter 7
to change the subject.
wait in the drawing-room, and whose shyness, as they had not seen her
impending famine disappeared. Their food, as I afterwards found, was
I exchanged my land-sledge for one fashioned for the inequalities of
Mrs. Younge, who was some time ago governess to Miss Darcy, and was
despairing and frightful that even now, when the scene is on the point of
left Bakewell, we understood that you were not immediately expected in
shouldn’t be hungry for it, you know.”
delight. But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible. And do you
materially concerned. It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that
your apartment, on a sensation of cold, I had covered myself with some
great opposition of character. Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the
“Perhaps he must, if he sees enough of her. But though Bingley and Jane
thereupon. But in general and ordinary cases, between friend and friend,
When I had attained the age of seventeen my parents resolved that I
house. Lady Catherine, I believe, did a great deal to it when Mr.
cottage had formerly occupied a part of it, but the panes had been
her mother, was a widow with four children, of whom Justine was the
[Illustration:
eagerness, I pursued nature to her hiding-places. Who shall conceive
Miss Darcy was expected to dinner: I wish I could see her. My visit was
sometimes wishing to see you, sometimes resolved to quit the world and
of one sister much exceeded her affection for the other.
making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes
desired effect; and she soon satisfied Jane by her solemn assurances of
anything so utterly destroyed.
manner which Elizabeth wondered Lady Catherine could bear. But Lady
Elizabeth, on her side, had much to do. She wanted to ascertain the
heart, but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his
wondrous, yet so simple, that while I became dizzy with the immensity
was at Netherfield. I hope your plans in favour of the ----shire will
that if I again made the attempt the boat would be instantly filled with
Mrs. Reynolds then directed their attention to one of Miss Darcy, drawn
hesitate; but Jane happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was
“At that instant the cottage door was opened, and Felix, Safie, and
soon see them here.”
hatred.”
her indifferent is certain; but I will venture to say that my
Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. “It’s no use
“When I reflect, my dear cousin,” said she, “on the miserable death of
Before any answer could arrive from Mr. Collins, or any congratulations
what he said of Miss Darcy, I was thoroughly prepared to see a proud,
every possibility of earthly happiness. She saw, with the creative eye
love before, her regard had all the warmth of first attachment, and from
others. She had very little notice from any but him. Miss Bingley was
Lady Catherine seemed resigned. “Mrs. Collins, you must send a servant
[Illustration]
interest, for him to be guilty of it. I cannot think so very ill of
upon me; I tried to dispel them, but sorrow only increased with
Netherfield long enough. She attracted him more than he liked; and Miss
meetings she must sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought, when she
imbibed a horror of deformity. If, therefore, I could seize him and
as _yours_ seems to have been. He came to tell Mr. Gardiner that he
might in time regain her natural degree of sense, since the disturbers
say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world. She is a
Every day at Longbourn was now a day of anxiety; but the most anxious
propriety in a different manner. I am excessively attentive to all those
Darcy.” She then sought her eldest sister, who had undertaken to make
the cause of that interruption, she soon learnt that his resolution of
While she spoke, Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to
I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony. I, not in deed,
the effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications. As I must,
“With an affectionate smile”
“Then, you know,” the Mock Turtle went on, “you throw the—”
August 13th, 17—.
again, and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the _Boulanger_----”
her stay as they had been at first. The very last evening was spent
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was
taken to separate Mr. Bingley and Jane, she had never doubted; but she
be in any danger from the deception never entered my head. That such a
sorrow vanished from his face, and it instantly expressed a degree of
no light but the glimmer of two eyes that glared upon me. Sometimes
harmony of the old man’s instrument nor the songs of the birds; I since
honestly telling her what she thought, she thus went on:--
that she could have so cheerful an air with such a companion. When Mr.
But every line proved more clearly that the affair, which she had
“You are joking, Lizzy. This cannot be! Engaged to Mr. Darcy! No, no,
is blind to a thousand minute circumstances which call forth a woman’s
Elizabeth, with nothing offensive, nothing_ viraginous, _nothing of the
——The sounding cataract
“What for?” said the one who had spoken first.
“I must confess that he did not speak so well of Wickham as he formerly
Collinses were come themselves to Lucas Lodge. The reason of this
told me that my friend had certainly not many hours to live.
because I was a different person then.”
chamber. He came like a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who
you would certainly not be here till to-morrow; and, indeed, before we
They walked towards the Lucases’, because Kitty wished to call upon
favourite of my father, a young man who had scarcely any other
Amongst the most violent against him was Mrs. Bennet, whose dislike of
of even in my country.
Queen to play croquet.” The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn
honours us during your stay here. Her behaviour to my dear Charlotte is
hard-heartedness in any of the family.
But this is false reasoning. I confess to you, my friend, that I love
read, and had all the masters that were necessary. Those who chose to be
to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows.”
for a fortnight, and inventing every evening a fresh excuse for her, the
life. Oppressed by the recollection of my various misfortunes, I now
my sister, how could she put on those smiles of innocence only to betray?
content to suffer alone while my sufferings shall endure; when I die, I am
were sheltered from its rays by a kind of canopy while we enjoyed the
came; she sees them now very often standing in Clarke’s library.”
out her hand to Felix, who kissed it rapturously and called her, as
spirit, wonderful_; but I did not then understand the signification
own handwriting. They hardly know how ill you have been and are uneasy at
enfranchised from my miserable slavery, I might claim Elizabeth and
apparel of summer; when those deserted me, I turned with more attention
Clerval spoke thus as we hurried through the streets; the words
sisters was then gratified: he bought an estate in a neighbouring county
missed. I am going to Gretna Green, and if you cannot guess with
“I have not the pleasure of understanding you,” said he, when she had
away, and in my dying moments I shall not curse my maker.”
Mr. Bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed
do every year, and intended to close it with a call at the Parsonage.
struck me, to my own. Like Adam, I was apparently united by no link to
“My dearest Cousin,
amusing or more horribly true. Much the same may be said of Kitty and
greatest of comforts, and I am very glad to hear what you tell us of
they had been speaking; Mr. Bingley and his sisters came to give their
what they were talking of. Elizabeth immediately began playing again.
who best knew the easiness of his temper, whether he might not spend the
They were rather handsome; had been educated in one of the first private
disposition; but, with all my ardour, I was capable of a more intense
pitiable to others and intolerable to myself.
“I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am
his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his
honour nor inclination confined to his cousin, why is not he to make
really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of
something of these distressing scenes; but now, as the first shock is
modesty, and changed the subject from my improvement, to the science
Darcy; nearly all of them would have palpitated and fluttered at the
“My mother is tolerably well, I trust; though her spirits are greatly
despondency and grief from my eyes. Despair had indeed almost secured
Darcy’s steward. Let me recommend you, however, as a friend, not to give
aunt had so highly honoured, and whom you loved, was a creature capable
“Yes; but as it happens, they are all of them very clever.”
“Miss Bennet, do you know who I am? I have not been accustomed to such
well as I could distinguish, his sweet Arabian. She did not appear to
suddenly came forward from the road which led behind it to the stables.
observation of a young man of nearly the same age with himself, and who
“If I’d been the whiting,” said Alice, whose thoughts were still
but she added, to herself, “Why, they’re only a pack of cards, after
return, have restored me entirely to myself.
promise burst upon me; I shuddered to think that future ages might curse me
tranquillity.
[Illustration:
in a cause of compassion and honour he had been able to get the better
We rest; a dream has power to poison sleep.
“I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation
country, America would have been discovered more gradually, and the
But in Clerval I saw the image of my former self; he was inquisitive
The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and went
to be described. Wholly inattentive to her sister’s feelings, Lydia flew
despatched; for though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick in
unblemished could make him. In that case he would return no more. Lady
imprudent marriage, but without mentioning names or any other
“Well!” thought Alice to herself, “after such a fall as this, I shall
herself at last in the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds
_can_ have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied
Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her
in collecting wood for the family fire, and during the night I often
had to pinch it to make it stop.
_hated_ cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don’t let me hear the name
But Elizabeth, who had not the least inclination to remain with them,
perpetually either making some inquiry, or looking at his page. She
We were soon joined by Elizabeth. Time had altered her since I last
think.”
hope at least he has not deceived us. Haggerston has our directions, and
brought the following note for Elizabeth:--
after my removal I was liberated from prison.
enthusiastic terms of her mother, who, born in freedom, spurned the
“My travels were long and the sufferings I endured intense. It was
combination of the fresh and vigorous projection of youth, and the
chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It
“Presently two countrymen passed by, but pausing near the cottage, they
thrust your sword into his heart. I will hover near and direct the
“Food, however, became scarce, and I often spent the whole day
life of its creator;—has this mind perished? Does it now only exist
Mr. Wickham’s adieus were much more affectionate than his wife’s. He
discover them; but he had something to direct his search, which was
Mr. Darcy would never have hazarded such a proposal, if he had not been
But, however, he did not. Perhaps he thought her too young. However, he
having one uncle who was a country attorney, and another who was in
“What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?” cried he. “Do
“Tut, tut, child!” said the Duchess. “Everything’s got a moral, if only
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar’s making such _very_
soon after this event.”
I fear, my friend, that I shall render myself tedious by dwelling on
“Why, if he came only to be silent, grave, and indifferent,” said she,
your return to us; and I was at first tempted to write only a few
was beginning to determine not to fix his eyes on Elizabeth, when they
“They are generally long; but whether always charming, it is not for me
this, repeated three or four times how much they were grieved, how
superior society; but I did not feel quite certain that the air of
more ruined castles and fertile fields. Immense glaciers approached
gallantry; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness in her
comfortably enough: there were half hours of pleasant conversation with
But--good Lord! how unlucky! there is not a bit of fish to be got
had no disinclination for it.
could not but triumph. It was consoling that he should know she had some
conquer all fear of danger or death and to induce me to commence this
“One side of _what?_ The other side of _what?_” thought Alice to
heard, his claims on Mr. Darcy, and all that he had suffered from him,
otherwise, if the regard springing from such sources is unreasonable or
bitter and loathing despair, in what should I seek for sympathy? I am
from a black and comfortless sky.
possessions most esteemed by your fellow creatures were high and
prejudice against everything he might say, she began his account of
_The secret of that charm many men and not a few women, from Miss Austen
will proclaim, I will prove your innocence. I will melt the stony
“I am sorry to hear _that_; but why did you not tell me so before? If I
And yet you incessantly stand on your head—
relate the other half of Mr. Darcy’s letter, nor explain to her sister
cousin or longed, with a devouring _maladie du pays_, to see once more
One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, Alice
summer.
examination of all the letters which Jane had written to her since her
earth! How often did I imprecate curses on the cause of my being! The
guarded and attended, according to their situation in life. When my
“I could mention innumerable instances which, although slight, marked
Catherine might see him in her way through town; and his engagement to
endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession
“You may readily comprehend,” she added, “what my curiosity must be to
]
and the prospect of her northern tour was a constant source of delight.
ruin your happiness. You do not make allowance enough for difference of
Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy, she left Elizabeth to walk
herself, “I don’t see how he can _ever_ finish, if he doesn’t begin.”
have gone, tracing a secure way over the pathless seas, the very stars
may wish him to marry a girl who has all the importance of money, great
health. He has already had one or two little _wives,_ but Louisa Biron
task, his full-toned voice swells in my ears; his lustrous eyes dwell on me
is his favourite, a pretty little girl of five years of age.
trembling, she asked, “What is it that agitates you, my dear Victor?
the neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was
every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to the
not adequate to the risk.”
Alice folded her hands, and began:—
“There _is_ something a little stately in him, to be sure,” replied her
the subject, calling on Miss Lucas for her compassion, and entreating
between Wickham and herself in their first evening at Mr. Philips’s.
Queen in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a
he is disposed to make them any amends, I shall not be the person to
table, and covered my face with my hands.
So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see it
happiness which this reply produced was such as he had probably never
shape a real impression out of the rest. But with Miss Austen the
from trying to talk to the latter, had they not been seated at an
the March Hare.
I had lost.
there may teach her her own insignificance. At any rate, she cannot grow
“For the liveliness of your mind I did.”
a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate! Do not wish me such an
reserve can be answerable for the event. But in spite of all this
whole power. It is your duty as a magistrate, and I believe and hope that
She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, “Which way? Which
but I remained some minutes with my eyes fixed on a coach that was coming
finished at Chawton some fifteen years later, and was not published till
your saying one night, after they had been dining at Netherfield, ‘_She_
of her mother, indeed, her confidence gave way a little; but she would
Letter 2
“Of what a strange nature is knowledge! It clings to the mind when it
conducted to my solitary apartment to spend the evening as I pleased.
thus preparing for me a hideous death.
room. Many stared--many smiled; but no one looked more amused than Mr.
“No, not at all.”
us, but let us only cling closer to what remains and transfer our love
drove from the town; “and really, upon serious consideration, I am much
she floated. Our situation was somewhat dangerous, especially as we
an exhibition.”
moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid
within a month; and as that left too short a period for them to go so
you expect to influence me by such a paltry attack as this. I see
esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is usually met
him better when they met in Kent than before, and that she had never
relapse. Alas! Why did they preserve so miserable and detested a
“is your opinion of me! This is the estimation in which you hold me! I
“Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. Perhaps _she_ is full young to be much
preserve you; may this be the last misfortune that you will ever
soon gave place to delight and rapture. After so much time spent in
feel a little worried.
Darcy’s opinion, and, perhaps, to remind the latter of all the follies
“No,” said the Caterpillar.
“That is not an unnatural surmise,” said Fitzwilliam; “but it is
vanity in useless or blameless distrust. How humiliating is this
all that remained to be shown. In the former were many good paintings:
feeling in Derbyshire, could not in rational expectation survive such a
“That will do extremely well, child. You have delighted us long enough.
to feel his own worth and the greatness of his fall.
her former prejudices had been removed.
Five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on Mrs. Bennet and
Fitzwilliam in his thoughts? She supposed, if he meant anything, he must
and then a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to
miserable and overcome by a thousand fears; and when they arrived and I
good, that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them—“I wish they’d
destination? These questions continually recurred, but I was unable to
got it out again, and put it right; “not that it signifies much,” she
time, but this was with me a secondary object; I was principally
flitted before me. I looked upon them as superior beings who would be
the children. But in what proportions it should be divided amongst the
or one action of this inestimable man is incapable of being reconciled
they would not offer to send her home.”
scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an uninterested
of credit. Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it is very ungenerous in you to mention
such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in town, which
enthusiastic imagination was chastened by the sensibility of his heart. His
“You propose,” replied I, “to fly from the habitations of
What I ask of you is reasonable and moderate; I demand a creature of
Jane, and a general similarity of feeling and taste between her and
I so fondly loved and to lie in wait for the murderer, that if any
to determine.”
window, unable to bear these emotions.
traditional appendices which Mr. Austen Leigh has given us, in dooming
Charlotte’s observation, and hurried her away to her room.
of that country whose knowledge and discoveries were of indispensable
judge. They are in the same profession, you know, only in different
murdered my brother?
older than you, and must know better;” and this Alice would not allow
[Illustration:
who were lying round the rose-tree; for, you see, as they were lying on
neighbour in her.”
Chapter 15
to ask.
peculiarities, has abilities which Mr. Darcy himself need not disdain,
I saw the filthy mass that moved and talked, my heart sickened and my
She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little
things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go
itself, with a desire, as I evidently saw, of drawing me out. What
promised yourself, has been consumed in my sick room. How shall I ever
describe the delight I felt when I learned the ideas appropriated to each of
“He meant, I believe,” replied Jane, “to go to Epsom, the place where
In the afternoon Lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to
Jane, who was not so light, nor so much in the habit of running as
made a slight, formal apology for not calling before, said not a
plunged into the lake.
strength was gone. I was a mere skeleton, and fever night and day
are provoking me to it every moment.”
went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters. But it ended in
“How are you getting on?” said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth
“You swear,” I said, “to be harmless; but have you not
archbishop find?”
with greater accuracy, the forms that surrounded me and to perceive the
returned, she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with
“It isn’t mine,” said the Hatter.
Elizabeth; and, as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for
my father, brothers, and Elizabeth.”
ought to have familiarised the old De Lacey to me, and by degrees to
experienced sensations of horror, and I have endeavoured to bestow upon
her daughters remaining at Netherfield till the following Tuesday, which
indeed, I dreamt that I wandered in flowery meadows and pleasant vales
The thought was madness; it stirred the fiend within me—not I, but
lay his private actions open to the world. His character was to
And could not such words from her whom I fondly prized before every
conjecturing as to the date of the building, the owner of it himself
consequence, to begin the acquaintance. Mr. Collins listened to her with
you on an affair of importance. I understand that Mr. Collins has made
the carriage drove off.
wanted. She would not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery
I found this, I resolved to quit the place that I had hitherto
I care about it, though. He is nothing to us, you know, and I am sure I
They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun. (If
“Certainly, my dear, nobody said there were; but as to not meeting with
each of you so complying, that nothing will ever be resolved on; so
“The efforts of his aunt”
aggravation of infamy that could make the murder memorable in horror.
seriousness, interpreted her words literally and looked upon Elizabeth
make up your mind to disappointment.”
leave to say, very impolitic too--for it is provoking me to retaliate,
“It must be very agreeable to her to be settled within so easy a
people! What would I give to hear your strictures on them!”
it, and I felt as if all hell surrounded me with mockery and laughter.
Jane had sent Caroline an early answer to her letter, and was counting
and several other persons, to the inn. I could not help being struck by the
though. He was an old crab, _he_ was.”
agree with it; and was confident, at last, that she recollected having
father doted on the smiles of the infant, and the lively sallies of the
place; I jumped over the chairs, clapped my hands, and laughed aloud.
“If I,” said Mr. Collins, “were so fortunate as to be able to sing, I
consolation to consider that to have conducted yourselves so as to avoid
at Netherfield at last!’ She did, indeed. I do think Mrs. Long is as
“Cheerful prognostics”                                                40
card-table--but in vain. She had obtained private intelligence that Mr.
naturally looks for happiness in the marriage state. If, therefore, she
My father made no reproach in his letters and only took notice of my
it was suspected by her father that she submitted to the change without
doubt of my ability to give life to an animal as complex and wonderful
scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her: then,
“Can’t remember _what_ things?” said the Caterpillar.
Their colours and their forms, were then to him
aspect of the earth. Men who before this change seemed to have been
sleep came. I awoke, and my yesternight’s thoughts were as a dream.
other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment. Their parties
towards me. As soon as he beheld my form, he placed his hands before
she had known Sir William’s too long. He could tell her nothing new of
instrument is a capital one, probably superior to ---- you shall try it
knew how to begin.” For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had
the _Sorrows of Werter_, besides the interest of its simple and affecting
It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.’ Mr.
to the sea of ice.
ecstatic joy, of which I could hardly have believed it capable; his
to be mistress of Pemberley might be something!
one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool
therefore, in this narration, to state those facts which led to my
great books, and make extracts.”
themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.
beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste. They were
Bourgh in this assembly! I am most thankful that the discovery is made
thought the same, and added,--
to every gloomy idea that arose. If I looked up, I saw scenes which were
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
wood—(she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery:
said Elizabeth, angrily; “for I have heard you accuse him of nothing
it muttering to itself “The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh
accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of
poor?”
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
way, that Maria thought herself obliged, on her return, to undo all the
rocky streams were all familiar and dear sights to me. Here also we
week he intended to commence a course of lectures upon natural
receiving the invitation from Mr. Bingley himself, instead of a
for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those attentions which
There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really
a change in a man of so much pride excited not only astonishment but
admire the evenness of your writing, as another young lady once did. But
water when I heard a step, and looking through a small chink, I beheld
secretly to take his daughter with him when he departed. His plans
attended her noble guest downstairs. As they passed through the hall,
reflection upon melancholy subjects. But her temper was fluctuating;
running down his cheeks, he went on again:—
from knowing him better, his disposition was better understood.”
“miniature,” there is something gigantic in the way in which a certain
prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case, but
understood, a solitary cell had been my habitation.
and in the majestic and wondrous scenes which surrounded our Swiss
that the fiend should live and be triumphant, my rage and vengeance
way, which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, she
unabated, I felt no doubt of their happiness together.”
day of her arrival at Pemberley--for she had reached it only to a late
have, unknown to them, been for many months in the habits of daily
little parties and engagements, with such news as the country afforded;
the Frozen Ocean, and purchasing a plentiful stock of provisions, I
Lizzy, I hardly know what I would write, but I have bad news for you,
table, after the welfare and poultry of her eldest daughter; Mrs. Bennet
weight, I may suffer from the want of money. Younger sons cannot marry
always make the most of it.”
“And how did you manage on the twelfth?” Alice went on eagerly.
southwesterly direction to reach my destination, but the sun was my
whom I dared not even think?
I said in one of my letters, my dear Margaret, that I should find no friend
impossible. No man of common humanity, no man who had any value for his
learned to distinguish between the operations of my various senses. By
Had Lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference with her
Chapter 1
little agreeable to her.
own when I declare to you that our marriage would render me eternally
remaining strength; I sank on the chair and sobbed aloud. At that
than by his; and she would have wondered why, without violently caring
were engaged; Jane was therefore obliged to go on horseback, and her
Thus the poor sufferer tried to comfort others and herself. She indeed
listener in Mrs. Philips, and was, by her watchfulness, most abundantly
Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match: but she said
Ariosto gives concerning the beauty of Angelica—she looked so
“Being thus provided, I resolved to reside in this hovel until
[Illustration]
think necessary; and then I must endeavour to be satisfied with
“He is certainly a good brother,” said Elizabeth, as she walked towards
express, and at any particular time likely to be differently
marry as soon as he could, provided he chose with discretion; and had
which opinion I am not only joined by Mrs. Collins, but likewise by
are; secondly, because they’re making such a noise inside, no one could
Thus situated, employed in the most detestable occupation, immersed in
when the door opened, and to her very great surprise Mr. Darcy, and Mr.
next morning to London.
]
Miss Bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw back
of teaching her that her present pursuits are not to be the business of
with which an affair was finally settled, that had given them so many
elegance to misfortune! Another day I will do the same; I will sit in my
“‘Hideous monster! Let me go. My papa is a syndic—he is M.
to it by extravagance, imprudence, in short, anything or nothing.
comfort was, that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.
their hands. These sublime and magnificent scenes afforded me the
all for Jane’s sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking to
“Hm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her ‘_Turtle Soup_,’ will you, old
window frame, so that he might see the ring, and then I bowed and
manner I can to relieve your wants; but, unfortunately, my children are
]
“I discovered also another means through which I was enabled to assist
effectually to what they related? Mr. Darcy, who never looks at any
extensive property.”
idea; but, recovering herself, said in a lively tone, “And pray, what is
in love as much as she chooses.”
idea of an accomplished woman.”
“I can guess the subject of your reverie.”
Lydia had dropped, if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been
study would have been irksome and almost intolerable. To examine the
“But, it goes on ‘_they all returned from him to you_,’” said Alice.
of my business; I am sent to nurse you and get you well; I do my duty
impudence of an impudent man. _She_ blushed, and Jane blushed; but the
“Come here, my love, I want to speak to you,” took her out of the room.
occasion for dictating to others. In the intervals of her discourse with
length on the ground. His companions came up to assist him, and by the
to find out the stand and number of the coach. I do not know of any
virtues and a desire to be the means of, in some degree, recompensing
my ephemeral, because human, sorrows. My wanderings were directed
“Oh! where, where is my uncle?” cried Elizabeth, darting from her seat
me, if I have been very presuming, or at least do not punish me so
estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the better. _I_ should be
Elizabeth and Catherine for a considerable time, without making any
A secret, kept from all the rest,
With respect to Wickham, the travellers soon found that he was not held
surely the spirits who assist my vengeance will endow me with
able to bring home the pleasing intelligence of their appearing in very
strange!”
her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement, she sent him
“Conjecturing as to the date”
“Oh, I _beg_ your pardon!” she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay, and
lower hills. The Alps here come closer to the lake, and we approached
curiosity so strongly marked as in Miss Bingley’s, in spite of the
it suddenly appeared again.
remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the
endeavouring to seek him out, with the hope of persuading him to begin
of helplessness, so often felt in frightful dreams, when you in vain
that the improvement of manners which she had yesterday witnessed,
otherwise explained.
I _think_ I can kick a little!”
among them?
visited them all, and this opened to his nieces a source of felicity
disgrace you: and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated,
“How nicely we are crammed in”
stays the same year for such a long time together.”
rage and despair. They were dead, and I lived; their murderer also lived,
or even the discharge of daily usefulness, without which no man is fit for
Mrs. Bennet treasured up the hint, and trusted that she might soon have
sincerely. I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth does, my
forbidden to write—to hold a pen; yet one word from you, dear Victor,
alone am irrevocably excluded. I was benevolent and good; misery made
many girls. And what sort of young lady is she? Is she handsome?”
positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured me with her hand; for I
discussion of it, and for all the commendations which they civilly
“Sixteenth,” added the Dormouse.
“That is my least concern; I am, by a course of strange events, become
affection of their amiable neighbour, Miss Lucas, and then explained
fortnight I was able to leave my chamber.
to inclination, were dwelt on with a warmth which seemed due to the
know.”
had ever known before.
form, showed itself, while I still remained in the forest. My
her eldest sister has resigned it; and the chosen partner of her fate
sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to his
the traces of the winter avalanche may be perceived, where trees lie
“Explain all that,” said the Mock Turtle.
daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others: for
too busily engaged in their separate apartments to make their appearance
as he had hoped; and he listened to him with the keenest enjoyment,
at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and Mrs. Bennet,
loathsome task in my father’s house while in habits of familiar
in the kingdom--provided that a proper humility of behaviour is at the
But wishes were vain; or, at best, could serve only to amuse her in the
Walton! Seek happiness in tranquillity and avoid ambition, even if it
affection than she feels. Bingley likes your sister undoubtedly; but he
“I shall do nothing of the sort,” said the Mouse, getting up and
might close over me and my calamities for ever. But I was restrained,
There was always scope for fear so long as anything I loved remained
pretty kind of girl. She asked her at different times how many sisters
thought of you crossed my mind. I learned from your papers that you
Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice
marriage, which, in his very first conversation with Wickham, he
mother, went forward to meet her; but instead of the expected summons,
“Could Colonel Forster repeat the particulars of Lydia’s note to his
degrees, I remember, a stronger light pressed upon my nerves, so that I
admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree. How can I see so
smiled like anything.”
not have formed a very pleasing picture of conjugal felicity or domestic
She wrote again when the visit was paid, and she had seen Miss Bingley.
which she could not answer without confusion--said scarcely anything. He
the cottagers, I ought not to make the attempt until I had first become
roots which I gathered from a neighbouring wood.
tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards. The prospect of such
Longbourn. Mr. Gardiner was a sensible, gentlemanlike man, greatly
to be the world, than he who aspires to become greater than his nature
separation that must sometimes occur. In the absence of Jane, he always
my own mind that to create another like the fiend I had first made
their joys, depending on each other, were not interrupted by the
were at first enigmatic.
“As if it wasn’t trouble enough hatching the eggs,” said the Pigeon;
had not before believed him quite equal to such assurance; but she sat
these are not Jane’s feelings; she is not acting by design. As yet she
little success. On both sides it was only assertion. Again she read on.
and dared not break, or if I did, what manifold miseries might not
was then but fifteen, which must be her excuse; and after stating her
calculations; a creature who could exist in the ice-caves of the glaciers
“It was much pleasanter at home,” thought poor Alice, “when one wasn’t
of the pictures, the dimensions of the rooms, and the price of the
After breakfast, the girls walked to Meryton, to inquire if Mr. Wickham
endeavour to regulate my mind.
“I think you said she was a widow, sir? has she any family?”
sooner than they might otherwise have done; and the boys were relieved
Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.”
plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were
endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her
let Mr. Collins and me have a little conversation together.”
I inquired after their brother, of course. He was well, but so much
only set _that_ down as almost certain and immediate which _she_ had
for one half hour.”
it at all advisable. After sitting a little while with Jane, on Miss
curricle driving up the street. Elizabeth, immediately recognizing the
happening to examine the apparel she had worn on the night of the
get husbands you can’t think. She says Lizzy had better have taken Mr.
thing! Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad to see Mr. Bingley.
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
humankind sinned against me? Why do you not hate Felix, who drove his
temper, though unlike her own, would have answered all her wishes. It
conversation with Colonel Forster?”
has been at all reprehensible, I here beg leave to apologize.”
yours, I will not rashly encounter danger. I will be cool,
Heading to Chapter XL.                                               278
of being allowed to be of use to his niece, was forced to put up
“She is tolerable”                                                    15
Miss Bennet accepted her aunt’s invitation with pleasure; and the
she related to her the next morning the chief of the scene between Mr.
unpardonable in _me_.”
persuasion of the young man, who, on meeting him accidentally in town,
A short dialogue on the subject of the country ensued, on either side
allow myself to conceal that your sister had been in town three months
had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must
had opportunities of seeing him in unguarded moments, which Mr. Darcy
deadly struggle would then assuredly take place, in which if he were
jury-box, or they would die.
of so many?’ What think you of _this_ sentence, my dear Lizzy?” said
and till the puppy’s bark sounded quite faint in the distance.
received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia. At first there
that the exigencies of the story had permitted Miss Austen to unite
looking so miserably ill, that it was impossible for Darcy to leave her,
handsome thought. Upon the whole, I am much pleased with him.”
“You have only proved by this,” cried Elizabeth, “that Mr. Bingley did
but when I contemplated the virtues of the cottagers, their amiable and
pleasure; and he readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of
object of prey to anybody. At Brighton she will be of less importance
two youngest girls, reached Netherfield soon after the family breakfast.
with news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in
the scene: it was a spot less adorned than any they had yet visited; and
nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. She
familiarly by the name of cousin. No word, no expression could body
Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she
have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to dancing
it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market town
great! Not handsome enough to dance with! I wish you had been there, my
and of their meaning to dine that day in Grosvenor Street, where Mr.
“The men shan’t come and part us, I am determined. We want none of them;
party of friends.” How rejoiced was Elizabeth that their own journey had
mounting your horse, a friend were to say, ‘Bingley, you had better stay
]
“You must be,” said the Cat, “or you wouldn’t have come here.”
her hand, but in vain. Elizabeth was determined; nor did Sir William at
as to make a most important discovery.
departure, before which time the Turk renewed his promise that she
off.
found, with pleasure, that the fire gave light as well as heat and that
“I haven’t the slightest idea,” said the Hatter.
“You _must_ remember,” remarked the King, “or I’ll have you executed.”
The joy which Miss Darcy expressed on receiving similar information was
of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness
would allow me to remain a few minutes before the fire.’
PRIDE.
“I remember, when we first knew her in Hertfordshire, how amazed we all
not thoughts befitting me; I will endeavour to resign myself cheerfully to
that I have never been much in love; for had I really experienced that
Chapter 2
friends who love you dearly. Your father’s health is vigorous, and he
of judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements. This sentiment of
kindness on a more grateful object.”
who led the way, was about thirty, not handsome, but in person and
“Well, perhaps you haven’t found it so yet,” said Alice; “but when you
ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution—once more the pig-baby
Miss Bennet’s astonishment was soon lessened by the strong sisterly
alone; because we shall see the less of him. Not that I am afraid of
Remember, I am not recording the vision of a madman. The sun does not
the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that she firmly believed
herself downwards, have felt, and like most charms it is a thing rather
rejoice over her words or to distrust their meaning. There was a
“It is well. You refuse, then, to oblige me. You refuse to obey the
marriage were all that was affectionate and insincere. She wrote even to
and has since maintained herself by letting lodgings. This Mrs.
found that he read aloud, but at that time I knew nothing of the
great hurry, muttering to himself as he came, “Oh! the Duchess, the
he was comparatively diffident since the adventure of Wednesday. His
words have got altered.”
long enough to determine her feelings towards _one_ in that mansion; and
“Have some wine,” the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.
house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as
books which I had requested, and I took my leave.
When he was gone, they were certain at least of receiving constant
His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was walking
perceptibly gained on it, and when, after nearly two days’ journey, I
“Two days wrong!” sighed the Hatter. “I told you butter wouldn’t suit
the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and
period approached, the threat appeared more as a delusion, not to be
When my guest was a little recovered I had great trouble to keep off
cottage, their harsh manners and rude gait only enhanced to me the
he has indeed taken refuge in the Alps, he may be hunted like the chamois
“That is the most unforgiving speech,” said Elizabeth, “that I ever
of snow, down which stones continually roll from above; one of them is
She longed to inquire of the housekeeper whether her master were really
reception of his advances she eagerly watched, and whose astonishment at
dependence.”
and she was preparing to see him with a degree of composure which
remedies—”
word will be a blessing to us. Ten thousand thanks to Henry for his
one cow, which gave very little during the winter, when its masters
and a view of the several empires at present existing in the world; it gave
“I often think,” said she, “that there is nothing so bad as parting with
Elizabeth passed quietly out of the room, Jane and Kitty followed, but
possibility of meeting Mr. Darcy, while viewing the place, instantly
himself. The liberty of communication cannot be mine till it has lost
and utterly ignorant of the customs of the world. She fell, however,
Mr. Collins and Charlotte were both standing at the gate in conversation
their motives has been read. If, in the explanation of them which is due
“I would wish not to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always speak
His accompanying them was a double advantage: she felt all the
Her heart had been but slightly touched, and her vanity was satisfied
the city had yet in itself sufficient beauty to obtain our admiration.
before seen, and his flight somewhat surprised me. But I was enchanted
friend and companion. But it is your happiness I desire as well as my
the storm was blown over. At such a moment, the arrival of her friend
shore, from which it wafted the most delightful scent of flowers and
no sooner dined than she set off again in quest of her former
overcoming it after this explanation.”
affection for his sister and her praise of himself, if he were already
going to be, from one minute to another! However, I’ve got back to my
belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish disdain of the
Jane’s delicate sense of honour would not allow her to speak to
utterly unknown to her before. Something, he supposed, might be
to Addison in others._
obey me in this one request, remain satisfied that nothing on earth
Justine, and to reflect on the events connected with those names filled
have this cat removed!”
on.”
towards the object of my search than to exhibit that object already
in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire.
consideration for the advantage of all your family; and if my _manner_
her consent to what she termed so disgraceful a match. I thought it my
_they_ did. As the day of his arrival drew near,--
perpetual splendour. There—for with your leave, my sister, I will put
path. I had money with me and gained the friendship of the villagers
acceptance, but Elizabeth had turned away her head. Presuming, however,
influence could penetrate. The wounded deer dragging its fainting
in which her sister was concerned, and preparing her to be surprised,
too far off. I could not bear to have her ten miles from me; and as for
a little different. But if I’m not the same, the next question is, Who
ferrets! Where _can_ I have dropped them, I wonder?” Alice guessed in a
proprietor, and, with no little alarm, whether the family were down for
of her friends; she wanted no help of his; she would not hear of
enough to make her understand his character.”
CHAPTER XLIX.
was now the object of her happiest thoughts: it was her best consolation
interspersed by rifts that sink deep. The field of ice is almost a
“That’s nothing to what I could say if I chose,” the Duchess replied,
beheld my enemy at no more than a mile distant, my heart bounded within
representation of the evils attached to a connection with her she dared
This accounted to Elizabeth for Mr. Wickham’s being among them.
more. I took their word for all that they averred, and I became their
advantages in my power to offer. You will find her manners beyond
I shall not be driven from the society and sympathy of your fellow
“At this time a slight sleep relieved me from the pain of reflection,
going on in the country as in town.”
Mrs. Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to her
Mr. Gardiner added, in his letter, that they might expect to see their
know not. But last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my
CHAPTER VIII.  The Queen’s Croquet-Ground
or of listening much; but it struck her in the course of their third
first have I heard the voice of kindness directed towards me; I shall
though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could
in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and I
and till the next day it was only known that a gentleman had called
cause—the monster whom I had created, the miserable dæmon whom I had
habit of spending more than they ought, and of associating with people
regard it, that she would never look in it again.
call it) _keeping;_ and I greatly need a friend who would have sense
It was not till the afternoon, when he joined them at tea, that
neatness of the entrance, taken into the house; and as soon as they were
composed heroic songs and began to write many a tale of enchantment and
who know not what it is to turn their backs on the foe.”
a letter, which she instinctively took, said, with a look of haughty
have to turn into a chrysalis—you will some day, you know—and then
make any reply. Mary, however, continued to console herself with such
So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she
smiles.
reading.”
asked her how she had liked him. Her answer was warmly in his favour.
had long been restored, and they gained additional strength from the
Elizabeth was the least dear to her of all her children; and though the
Colonel Fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them: anything was a
silent when I would have given the world to have confided the fatal secret.
tastes, entirely suited to one another. But so blind is the experience of
her knees. She rose on seeing us enter, and when we were left alone with
the diversity and contrast that subsisted in our characters drew us
them into harmony and plenty.
know his real character?”
true, and her women are, in the old sense, “absolute.” As to art, if she
“It’s a pun!” the King added in an offended tone, and everybody
offers of refreshment.
As I spoke, rage sparkled in my eyes; the magistrate was intimidated.
Wickham and herself. Jane listened with astonishment and concern: she
“I know very well, madam,” said he, “that when persons sit down to a
with their practical uses. The most learned philosopher knew little
opened his lips. The easy assurance of the young couple, indeed, was
invariably connected with the display of one or the other, or both of
The contents of this letter threw Elizabeth into a flutter of spirits,
She welcomed me with the greatest affection. “Your arrival, my dear
Are you going much farther?”
it would be wiser to resist? All that I can promise you, therefore, is
but the latter half, which was dated a day later, and written in evident
better.”
firing sufficient for the consumption of several days.
mercenary.”
self-violence I curbed the imperious voice of wretchedness, which
everybody. Whatever he said, was said well; and whatever he did, done
it gratified him, he said, to discover that Charlotte Lucas, whom he had
which I did not understand; and the old man again took up the
But, my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is particularly fond
door—led me first to M. Krempe, professor of natural philosophy. He
gentleman you murdered, I believe that it were better for you if you
had ever done; and much as she had always been disposed to like him, she
such a smile over the face, as she remembered to have sometimes seen,
My journey was very melancholy. At first I wished to hurry on, for I longed
truth? Oh, that I knew how it was!”
“The disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late honoured
question. “What sort of people live about here?”
vexation. Her coming there was the most unfortunate, the most ill-judged
other. I gradually saw plainly the clear stream that supplied me with
after my arrival in the hovel I discovered some papers in the pocket of
“Get up!” said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three
generosity were ever present before me, inciting within me a desire to
it, he must find it out.”
To this speech Bingley made no answer; but his sisters gave it their
“My dear Friend,
what he is about. He has a very satirical eye, and if I do not begin by
health. Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry pride. Elizabeth
was certain that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to
“Of the mushroom,” said the Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it
her in her adversity. She procured plain work; she plaited straw and
meditated elopement. To no creature had it been revealed, where secrecy
I knew well therefore what would be my father’s feelings, but I could
several professors of the university. In doing this, I underwent a
his mate before I allowed myself to enjoy the delight of a union from
Bennet, for many years after Lydia’s birth, had been certain that he
“A cat may look at a king,” said Alice. “I’ve read that in some book,
Derbyshire friend, that had attended her from that part of the world.
of June Kitty was so much recovered as to be able to enter Meryton
elopement. I know it all; that the young man’s marrying her was a
you left me on Saturday, I was fortunate enough to find out in what
the sort of cautiousness to which you, I imagine, have been alluding, is
of your work; this history was mingled with accounts of domestic
circumstance occurs, before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour
rugged hills, ruined castles overlooking tremendous precipices, with
business. He passed his younger days perpetually occupied by the
The master is a person of an excellent disposition and is remarkable in the
“My dear Miss Eliza, why are not you dancing? Mr. Darcy, you must allow
_The characteristics of Miss Austen’s humour are so subtle and delicate
substance of her conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on
“There is a gentleman with him, mamma,” said Kitty; “who can it be?”
ready to allow it a wise and desirable measure for both, and could very
to speak any more. Her brother, whose eye she feared to meet, scarcely
not be very likely to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of mind.”
“They are wanted in the farm much oftener than I can get them.”
She was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin, and
Ladyship, I suspect his gratitude misleads him; and that, in spite of
Jane on the occasion, to express her delight, and repeat all her former
give them as unstudied an air as possible.”
forgets her, that these sort of inconstancies are very frequent.”
charm._
“The lobsters!” shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.
resolution. I had hitherto supposed him to be the murderer of my
When the party broke up, Lydia returned with Mrs. Forster to Meryton,
formality, the under-breeding, the meanness, are there; but the portrait
of her brother and sister, that they did not once sit down to a family
*      *      *      *      *      *      *
attachment. When convinced on that article, Miss Bennet had nothing
“Don’t keep coughing so, Kitty, for heaven’s sake! Have a little
in case of failure. Prepare to hear of occurrences which are usually
“I can’t go no lower,” said the Hatter: “I’m on the floor, as it is.”
and younger children would by that means be provided for. Five daughters
conversation took place between him and his father, and the young
I need not describe the feelings of those whose dearest ties are rent
first got abroad, it hastened his journey.”
“I hope,” added Mrs. Gardiner, “that no consideration with regard to
One day, while I was gradually recovering, I was seated in a chair, my eyes
now free from all restraint, his life was a life of idleness and
accompanied her out of the room. As they went down stairs together,
began the creation of a human being. As the minuteness of the parts
“What do you know about this business?” the King said to Alice.
should be equally unreserved was impossible. Elizabeth could never
scene of the busy heavens, rendered still busier by the restless waves
letter to Mrs. F. gave them to understand that they were going to Gretna
“I hope you are well, Miss Bennet. That lady, I suppose, is your
separated Felix kissed the hand of the stranger and said, ‘Good night
fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining, from an upper
and anxious to gain experience and instruction. The difference of
desolate state and made me feel more painfully that I was not made for
“Oh, it is not thus—not thus,” interrupted the being.
against the grain; and I really believe your letter this morning
opportunity.”
He even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity.
tell him of their having seen his aunt, of which her daughter sat in
CHAPTER XXXIX.
drew near my native town, I slackened my progress. I could hardly sustain
But of this answer Lydia heard not a word. She seldom listened to
nothing.
trial one way up as the other.”
ignorant and disappointed. It requires more philosophy than I possess
deservedly dear as he is to his sister, whatever anxiety she may
opened by a servant, and Mr. Darcy appeared. Her pale face and
compliment it offered to herself; and it was most acceptable as an
Elizabeth obeyed; and, running into her own room for her parasol,
olive branch. I cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the
kind to visit me; you, I hope, do not believe that I am guilty?”
forwarder than either of us, for she went upstairs half an hour ago.”
to rocks and mountains? Oh, what hours of transport we shall spend! And
Mrs. Collins well?”
“If you are looking for my master, ma’am, he is walking towards the
Her husband allowed her to talk on without interruption while the
reporting some fresh instance of Wickham’s extravagance or irregularity,
the winter, and concluded with her brother’s regret at not having had
wrote some verses on her, and very pretty they were.”
begun asking riddles.—I believe I can guess that,” she added aloud.
She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of
was the first sentence in her French lesson-book. The Mouse gave a
“_Un_important, of course, I meant,” the King hastily said, and went on
and he showed her a large loaf and a piece of cheese. She seemed
commission of the peace for the county, she was a most active magistrate
manner as I thus addressed him was impressive but calm; I had formed in my
safe for her--that she was not enough recovered; but Jane was firm where
in additional love and reverence for my protectors (for so I loved, in
quickly over the snow in their sledges; the motion is pleasant, and, in
contented and happy; their feelings were serene and peaceful, while
by himself. If he _had another_ motive, I am sure it would never
conversation was thereby at an end, Elizabeth soon afterwards left the
turning to the rose-tree, she went on, “What _have_ you been doing
for it, however. Mr. Wickham’s happiness and her own was perforce
when she was only eight years old.
In my education my father had taken the greatest precautions that my
penalty of the law, less innocent than poor Justine had been. Such were my
Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose—
principle.”
must have gone through!”
CHAPTER VI.
length saw issuing from behind a small promontory. As I was in a state of
well. Oh that I had been with you! you have had every care and anxiety
and human, and you must feel that you could deny it only in the
spot. Mr. Denny addressed them directly, and entreated permission to
You had mentioned Geneva as the name of your native town, and towards
too she is a perfectly natural girl. She does not disguise from herself
easily perceived that, although I eagerly longed to discover myself to
“Not at all.”
natural talent. On the same day I paid M. Waldman a visit. His
festering, the wounds of our minds. Enter the house of mourning, my
doubted not, as the most generous of his sex. But while he was mortal,
a shop window, could recall them.
volcano bursting forth, his face would suddenly change to an expression
to _insist_ upon her marrying him.”
of conversation were considerable. They could describe an entertainment
hands which executed the deed; I think on the heart in which the
never have come so soon to wait upon me.”
more popular; the author had by the time of its composition seen rather
watching over me, perceiving my restlessness, awoke me; the dashing waves
improved in civility.”
for the latter; and detestable as such a step must make her, were it
“I must trouble you once more for congratulations. Elizabeth will
endeavouring to plunge me into the abyss. William and Justine were
Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
you went to town last winter, you promised to take a family dinner with
time not disagreeably. We have certainly done our best; and most
“Piling up the fire”                                                  69
“Meeting accidentally in town”                                       256
ever done before. A ground sea was heard; the thunder of its progress, as
self-consequence or unbending reserve, as now, when no importance could
shore, enjoying the transitory light, and then retired to the inn and
“Believe me, my dear sir, my gratitude is warmly excited by such
“I fear that this place is very shocking to you; can I do anything to
changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders
had listened to the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse
sat in the sledge and guided the dogs. We watched the rapid progress
in love with you and wants him to marry Miss Darcy. She follows him to
and the earth again began to look green, confirmed in an especial
employed in their ordinary occupations.
rapidly, and, on landing, I ascended a low hill, that I might observe its
degree of tranquillity; and when I considered what had passed at the
[Illustration]
me and cling to me for ever.
distraction of his thoughts.
minds and countenances of the hearers. This was indeed a godlike science,
energetic.”
and if we were beyond the hour we could not be married all day. But,
all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short time
continued, and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable darkness. I
This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in
was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had
garden gate.
five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!”
herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of them.
myself. About a year ago, she was taken from school, and an
I should have willingly given it to her, so much do I esteem and value
impracticable; and thus, while every proper measure is pursued, you should
prejudiced, absurd.
understand it. If I were not afraid of judging harshly, I should be
They were hopeless of remedy. Her father, contented with laughing at
done about Pemberley?” cried Mrs. Gardiner. “John told us Mr. Darcy was
an attachment.
owe their being to me. No father could claim the gratitude of his
friends and derives from that communion consolation for his miseries or
“What think you of books?” said he, smiling.
material to my success, and I sometimes thought of obtaining my
engaged by Wickham for those very dances; and to have Mr. Collins
before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.
monsters, cut off from all the world; but on that account we shall be more
for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English); “now I’m
country. My journey had been my own suggestion, and Elizabeth
“Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight. Do
to pay him.”
cousin. My father wished her not to go but said that he left it to her own
extreme. They were always moving from place to place in quest of a
filled with the bitterest sensations of despondence and mortification.
how tired I am!” accompanied by a violent yawn.
Everybody looked at Alice.
amiable. When Darcy returned to the saloon, Miss Bingley could not help
Caterpillar, and the words all coming different, and then the Mock
Forster say? Had they no apprehension of anything before the elopement
“I do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your Ladyship. _You_
voice was suffocated with sobs.
my being; all the events of that period appear confused and indistinct.
is my favourite; but I think I shall like _your_ husband quite as well
pretended friends, I wish to be allowed to speak, that I may say what I
prospect of their relationship was highly grateful to her, and that she
for her own weakness, could not go on. At length Darcy spoke, and in a
The sight of the awful and majestic in nature had indeed always the
and useless names. Good God! In what desert land have you lived,
Lady Lucas. Her report was highly favourable. Sir William had been
“WILLIAM COLLINS.”
[Illustration]
Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her
strikingly altered,--what could it mean? That he should even speak to
interview than before, and resolved to appear and to speak with
he disliked her was still more strange. She could only imagine, however,
as soon as their visitor left them, she could think without interruption
settle every doubt, and determine him at once to be as happy as dignity
Catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration, and gave most
all too late now.”
soul, and the despair that is exhibited on the countenance. It is so
was full, and I did not answer him, but as I proceeded, I weighed the
can never be what we once were to each other.”
Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers
situation.”
my proficiency that of the masters. Professor Krempe often asked me,
“I should be sorry, indeed, if it were. _We_ were always good friends,
“You can draw water out of a water-well,” said the Hatter; “so I should
the most agreeable man I ever saw--and if he becomes really attached to
Elizabeth, said to her,--
the postscript of the last with trembling energy. Though Lydia had never
sty and a clear pool of water. One part was open, and by that I had
ladies; not deficient in good-humour when they were pleased, nor in the
thought of my beloved Elizabeth, of her tears and endless sorrow, when she
except of the person who had mostly engaged their attention. They talked
attached to her situation, that she could, upon the whole, have no cause
“This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am sure,”
advantage from the change: and Alice was a good deal worse off than
garden to Mrs. Collins, sat for some time without speaking to anybody.
their Lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight. They had
features, but he said not a word; and Elizabeth, though blaming herself
and Kitty made inevitable; and could she have included Jane in the
left by some wandering beggars, and was overcome with delight at the
most confusing thing _I_ ever heard!”
tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered “She’s under
about this report? Did she call to refuse her consent?”
considered that Jane would no longer be duped, by the sister at least.
promised to reveal to her on the following day. My father was in the
their seats with an activity which took their brother by surprise, and
disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her
have been a disgrace; when she saw him thus civil, not only to herself,
chosen so much more advantageously in many respects. But when they see,
Africa or America? I dare not expect such success, yet I cannot bear to
expectation of one wedding made everybody eager for another, to supply
who, as Lady Catherine herself condescendingly says, will connect
winds, or confine a mountain-stream with a straw. I saw him too; he
London was our present point of rest; we determined to remain several
desire, and represented Caroline Beaufort in an agony of despair, kneeling
For he can thoroughly enjoy
endeavoured to alter the course of my thoughts. He wished as much as
was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with
Chapter 12
Man’s yesterday may ne’er be like his morrow;
offended two or three young ladies by not asking them to dance; and I
heard of the division of property, of immense wealth and squalid
[Illustration]
to fit myself for an interview with them which would decide my fate. I
feeling; he drew back his chair, took a newspaper from the table, and,
Catherine that spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or
think, you ought to tell me who _you_ are, first.”
sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects of happiness
precious to me, yet I remained irresolute in what manner to commence
walk, when she caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the sort of grove
CHISWICK PRESS:--CHARLES WHITTINGHAM AND CO.
burst forth amidst the universal stillness. All, save I, were at rest
almost every day. They called at various times of the morning, sometimes
[Illustration:
occupations, set down natural history and all its progeny as a deformed
Mr. Collins.”
despair to my heart; I grasped his throat to silence him, and in a
As Mrs. Gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that she
“Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?” said Elizabeth, still
]
“One day, when I was oppressed by cold, I found a fire which had been
again by her sister.
that I was capable of taking pleasure in the idea of such a journey,
compliments as may be adapted to ordinary occasions, I always wish to
children are accustomed to do when they expect a spectre to stand in
an innocent, half-painful self-deceit, to call them).”
“Not so hasty, if you please. I have by no means done. To all the
were sisters; consequently that she is aunt to the present Mr. Darcy.”
me; I felt my flesh tingle with excess of sensitiveness, and my pulse
less on any single event, or any particular person; for though they
the whole of the journey. From Elizabeth’s thoughts it was never absent.
looks of affection and kindness. What did their tears imply? Did they
The Cat’s head began fading away the moment he was gone, and, by the
body into her house; it was not cold. They put it into a bed and
still to trust myself to the mercy of the seas rather than abandon my
my destruction. Shall I not then hate them who abhor me? I will keep
for escape before Felix could return to Italy, Safie should remain as a
world to that sort of thing. Young women should always be properly
wants you in the library.” She was gone directly.
such a one as will allow of frequent journeys--and I am persuaded my
“Thank you,” said Alice, “it’s very interesting. I never knew so much
wandered about in the wood, “is to grow to my right size again; and the
are warned against it; and, therefore, I am not afraid of speaking
great pleasure in the power of choice. I do not know anybody who seems
hoping that some change would take place in the atmosphere and weather.
As for Wickham and Lydia, their characters suffered no revolution from
up. He was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as
one spot of Pemberley House, whichever it might be, where Mr. Darcy then
of nightmare; I felt the fiend’s grasp in my neck and could not free
effort which the formation and the perusal of this letter must occasion,
in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced
shook its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.
from which I might otherwise have snatched repose and peace. I waited
possessed, of bringing on the renewal of his addresses.
to the other side of the fireplace, that she might be farther from the
my part, except the shops and public places. The country is a vast deal
notice, but he certainly has not known her long.”
set off together. Bingley and Jane, however, soon allowed the others to
I mentioned in my last letter the fears I entertained of a mutiny.
“Oh no, my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing you so full
resides with them. But she is perfectly amiable, and often condescends
decided. Your character was unfolded in the recital which I received
expense or inconvenience to her family as under the present
He was seriously concerned that a cause of so little advantage to anyone
looking at in the summer.
and respectability which he will probably never reach.” When she thought
Elizabeth was pleased to find that he had not betrayed the interference
“No, I give it up,” Alice replied: “what’s the answer?”
viewing them as a stranger, I might have rejoiced in them as my own, and
pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased.”
would cost them their lives.
Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown. Never mind Miss
her, and moving with his usual deliberation towards the pianoforte,
place with some of their new friends, and were just returned to the inn
things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be
_acme_, and what I must now relate can but be tedious to you. Know
shaken by the horror of the recent events. Elizabeth was sad and
Elizabeth smiled.
which you have supported this extraordinary application have been as
almost regarded as an insuperable barrier between me and my fellow
afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you cannot greatly
fixed for the following Tuesday. The two ladies were delighted to see
man, a servant of her father who understood French. She thanked him in
If, as I conclude will be the case, you send me full powers to act
“I can answer your question,” said Fitzwilliam, “without applying to
contemplate its progress?
convinced her, on examination, that she did not consider it entirely
Her aunt assured her that she was; and Elizabeth, having thanked her for
almost forced conviction upon us; and her own behaviour has been so
only wish his happiness; and if he is attached to me no other woman can
upon my own. Our misfortune is doubly hard to us; we have not only
be sacrificed or to see those whom I most loved die under the grasp of a
minutes with him in his library. He had entertained hopes of being
their other neighbours, and to hear herself called “Mrs. Wickham” by
CHAPTER II.
feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her. “Poor little
younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable companion. They
insurance for the owner, and to engage as many sailors as I think necessary
well. Against staying longer, however, Elizabeth was positively
and added “It isn’t a letter, after all: it’s a set of verses.”
Colonel Fitzwilliam. He was, beyond comparison, the pleasantest man: he
“No, really,” replied Elizabeth; “I think there cannot be too little
natural; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feelings. She was
the will of heaven!”
buds were shooting forth from the trees that shaded my window. It was
“And my aunt Philips is sure it would do _me_ a great deal of good,”
a general expectation of their marriage. He spoke of it as a certain
“Speak roughly to your little boy,
superior to them._
conditional recommendation, and to assert that I had forfeited all claim
every pretence of delay and shrank from taking the first step in an
being formed in the “very poetry of nature.” His wild and
It had been settled in the evening, between the aunt and niece, that
]
bend, I think?”
“You are too hasty, sir,” she cried. “You forget that I have made no
latter depended on the will of the parents. This was one point, with
to render her life happy; now all was to be obliterated in an
her last illness, with the greatest affection and care and afterwards
to the Knave.
[Illustration]
charge to her. They were fond of the sweet orphan. Her presence had seemed
She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the
down beside the old man, who, taking up an instrument, began to play
have induced him to behave so cruelly?”
change was so great, and struck so forcibly on her mind, that she could
next to him, and took off my glove and let my hand just rest upon the
Brighton. Let her go, then. Colonel Forster is a sensible man, and will
and the excess of agitation that I endured rendered me incapable of any
know that she had been assured of his absence before she came to the
The duration of my absence was left to my own choice; a few months, or
But I, at least, have not the slightest doubt that she would have
The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. “Where shall I begin, please
Some hours passed thus; but by degrees, as the sun declined towards the
“To whom I have related the affair”                                  363
No one but Mrs. Bennet regretted that their stay would be so short; and
[Illustration]
alleviate; yet your presence will, I hope, revive our father, who seems
godlike. To be a great and virtuous man appeared the highest honour
“Accompanied by their aunt”                                          225
But success _shall_ crown my endeavours. Wherefore not? Thus far I
“Good gracious!” cried Mrs. Bennet, as she stood at a window the next
that might offer consolation to such distress! But I will not torment
“My dear Victor, do not speak thus. Heavy misfortunes have befallen
and hide himself from pursuit among the ridges of inaccessible precipices
behold, with the first imagination of danger, or, if you will, the first
never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by
said, “It was a treacle-well.”
up. Good-bye. Give my love to Colonel Forster. I hope you will
This speech troubled me. I had not despaired, nor had I yet conceived
glad to see them; he had felt their importance in the family circle. The
treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his
Jane’s temper was not desponding; and she was gradually led to hope,
fourth. Good-bye.”
“My dear Lizzy, where can you have been walking to?” was a question
“And yet you rescued me from a strange and perilous situation; you have
together first—they don’t reach half high enough yet—Oh! they’ll do
He only does it to annoy,
to Jane, and she wavered as to the greater probability of his coming
you thinking of?”
daughter, but I continued their single offspring. When I was about five
with a good-humoured ease, which she felt very unable to equal in her
then hear all.”
Why does she not come in?”
for ever deprived of the delights that such beautiful creatures could
all rose; and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by him, when
Mary was the only daughter who remained at home; and she was necessarily
she would have described more fully, but was obliged to leave off in a
acquainted with the theory and practice of natural philosophy as
haven’t had a wink of sleep these three weeks!”
interrupted, “if you don’t explain it as you go on? It’s by far the
answer him with patience, when he should have done. He concluded with
intended.
Lydia was exceedingly fond of him. He was her dear Wickham on every
“‘Boy, you will never see your father again; you must come with me.’
figure; but Elizabeth heard not a word, and, wholly engrossed by her own
other sensations. Now I could only answer my father with a look of
flight of the vulture and dimmed her rays, while the lake reflected the
It was morning, I remember, when I thus awoke to understanding; I had
continued the conversation till they reached the house. In the hall they
giving offence.
inquiries clear and facile to my apprehension. My application was at
“Oh! hang Kitty! what has she to do with it? Come, be quick, be quick!
acquaintance still remained, they bent their steps, after having seen
Philips first brought her the news). “Well, so much the better. Not that
into foreign service, but we cannot part with him, at least until his
of my story, and you will easily perceive why I am reserved upon that
Had Elizabeth’s opinion been all drawn from her own family, she could
which she could not praise. The house, furniture, neighbourhood, and
himself. As to his real character, had information been in her power,
“What a curious feeling!” said Alice; “I must be shutting up like a
which the March Hare was said to live. “I’ve seen hatters before,” she
of the room. “You travelled to seek happiness, but a fatality seems
to health, the sight of a chemical instrument would renew all the agony
describe—gigantic in stature, yet uncouth and distorted in its
with which Charlotte talked of the healthfulness of the exercise, and
was Lady Catherine, books, and a billiard table, but gentlemen cannot be
“I lay on my straw, but I could not sleep. I thought of the
think better of me? Did you, on reading it, give any credit to its
The account of his connection with the Pemberley family was exactly
that joy had taken place of sadness in the countenances of my friends.
[Illustration]
features, though not plain, were insignificant; and she spoke very
cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard, nor of its
had reserved for them. But Jane was to go home with her, and at
friend had left him that morning for London, but was to return home in
that I had not imagined such inquiries to be necessary on _your_
being, but certainly I should have thought such a creature unfit to
“Well, Lizzy,” continued her mother, soon afterwards, “and so the
When these thoughts possessed me, I would not quit Henry for a moment,
shaken. She is upstairs, and will have great satisfaction in seeing you
they are known, and that their sisters will not be often involved in the
anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon
before anybody else. However, your coming just at this time is the
_now_ we may be silent.”
not vary for an instant, she was at first sorry for the pain he was to
And then we were so merry all the way home! we talked and laughed so
quickness than her sisters.”
but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small,
the structure of the human frame, and, indeed, any animal endued with
before my eyes, and I raved incessantly concerning him. Doubtless my
first time of my ever seeing him in Hertfordshire, you must know, was at
again, no wonder she felt unhappy.
idle certainly might.”
Mr. Darcy, who was leaning against the mantel-piece with his eyes fixed
a year ago, even perhaps augmented by time. I would not disturb you at
“Change lobsters again!” yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice.
accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly.”
poured in, and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the
“Was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to Jane, while she was
Elizabeth, when Mr. Darcy gave her the letter, did not expect it to
frequent discussion between her parents. Elizabeth saw directly that her
and of self-control, I was so guided by a silken cord that all seemed but
refusal of my addresses are merely words of course. My reasons for
separation. To the rest of the family they paid little attention;
half an hour’s quiet reflection in her own room, she was able to join
replied; “and then the different branches of Arithmetic—Ambition,
Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he was
fashion.”
that the shades of my murdered friends heard and approved my devotion, but
his power to satisfy us on this head. But, on second thoughts, perhaps
enjoyment of music than myself, or a better natural taste. If I had ever
hair of a shining raven black, and curiously braided; her eyes were
my retreat. The floor was a little raised, so that it was kept
“I’m _not_ a serpent!” said Alice indignantly. “Let me alone!”
“One, indeed!” said the Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to
It was the second week in May, in which the three young ladies set out
stairs, I darted up towards my own room. My hand was already on the
ever was seen!”
the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so,
My change of manner surprised and pleased the magistrate; perhaps he
impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the
had there renewed a slight acquaintance. Of his former way of life,
trifling colds. She will be taken good care of. As long as she stays
“You cannot be too much on your guard. Risk anything rather than her
pain of a wound which shattered the flesh and bone. The feelings of
no use denying it. I suppose you’ll be telling me next that you never
hardly knew of what. She became jealous of his esteem, when she could no
his fair cousins health and happiness again, and promised their father
said she, “though I am _not_ her particular friend. I have just as much
grateful. Adieu! my cousin; take care of yourself; and, I entreat
for any lesson-books!”
innocence.”
Everybody was surprised; and Darcy, after looking at her for a moment,
such forbearance and liberality towards him. And there are other
of Fielding and Smollett, even with the ferocious practical jokes that
the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed his hopes of their all
CHAPTER XVIII.
Pemberley by purchase than by imitation.”
Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could: said that she had liked
replied with an air of distant civility. Mr. Collins, however, was not
her, cried in a half whisper, “I am glad you are come, for there is such
views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found that he
“Begin at the beginning,” the King said gravely, “and go on till you
attentions of the officers, to whom her uncle’s good dinners and her
cordiality, said how happy they should be to see him at Longbourn again,
to make us the atonement he thinks our due, the wish is certainly to his
nowhere else in the character of the immortal, the ineffable Mr.
my suffering, away from her, the inroads of misery and grief. It had
“Oh! my dear father,” she cried, “come back and write immediately.
guard from the knowledge of his best friend, could not escape the
increasing, and even Sir William did not look perfectly calm.
Ruined castles hanging on the precipices of piny mountains, the
rise from his bed, and in a few days he died in my arms.
because he was not so happy as to succeed with you?”
“Good gracious! Mr. Darcy!--and so it does, I vow. Well, any friend of
Charlotte, “and a most attentive neighbour.”
to my occasional absence on a Sunday, provided that some other
the living spirit of love to soften and attract; I might have become
Duck: “it’s generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the
the want of importance in his friend’s connections than from their want
feelings of her friends, were requisite to check the indulgence of those
had found out where your sister and Mr. Wickham were, and that he
reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever; but I rather believe
anything.”
or when putting Mr. Collins through his paces; but the general sense of
They were interrupted by Miss Bennet, who came to fetch her mother’s
“I cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind. _Your_
herself, “because of his great wig.”
He made no answer.
had voluntarily done for Lydia. He heard her with astonishment.
“When younger,” said he, “I believed myself destined for
the ground. More thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please, than when
when I grow up, I’ll write one—but I’m grown up now,” she added in a
there was no other prospect of support. But Caroline Beaufort
The sun had far descended, and I still sat on the shore, satisfying my
compliment to her eldest daughter, and was particularly flattered by
Elizabeth.
may be reasonably looked up to as one of the most illustrious personages
Kitty, to her very material advantage, spent the chief of her time with
Mr. and Mrs. Bennet                                                    5
luxuriances only formed a more horrid contrast with his watery eyes,
Pemberley House, is a powerful motive. He has also _brotherly_ pride,
even as a common flirt than she has been here. The officers will find
herself, when her father continued,--
We quitted London on the 27th of March and remained a few days at
not equal mine; she was sustained by innocence, but the fangs of
by Wickham, and by the awkwardness (arising with equal naturalness) from
sweet and mournful than I had ever heard him play before. At first his
brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to communicate.
“The game’s going on rather better now,” she said, by way of keeping up
“He took me for his housemaid,” she said to herself as she ran. “How
“If she is, God forbid that she should suffer as guilty. She is to be
is beautiful in nature or the study of what is excellent and sublime in
The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle
of killing somebody underneath, so managed to put it into one of the
village to settle their differences, silence their complaints, and scold
minute.
that, having finally resolved against taking orders, he hoped I should
heartily they were wished away by some of the family. Mrs. Hurst and her
to pursue you. And poor Clerval—”
returning to the carriage as quickly as possible. Her niece was,
promises fairly; and I hope among different people, where they may each
down the dance. So he inquired who she was, and got introduced, and
they had never seen before, of most gentlemanlike appearance, walking
significant look and smile from Mrs. Annesley to Miss Darcy had been
“Lizzy,” said her father, “I have given him my consent. He is the kind
knowledge and wisdom, as I once did; and I ardently hope that the
only seen at church.
Alas! Victor, when falsehood can look so like the truth, who can
would; and the argument ended only with the visit.
thousand objects that scared me. Towards morning I was possessed by a kind
A fiendish rage animated him as he said this; his face was wrinkled
Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an
evidently meant for her.
Mr. Collins returned most punctually on the Monday fortnight, but his
how much. But he had given a reason for his interference, which asked no
delight welcomed his Arabian. Agatha, the ever-gentle Agatha, kissed
depth of my sorrow? All that I should express would be inadequate and
land of mist and snow,” but I shall kill no albatross; therefore do not
A thousand times would I have shed my own blood, drop by drop, to have
vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth. From this
pardon!” cried Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all
knowledge of language, so that in two months I began to comprehend most
may stay a little longer. Mrs. Collins will be very glad of your
her perhaps almost as happy as Jane. She saw her in idea settled in that
bitter accusations might have been suppressed, had I, with greater
the horizon when he departed. I knew that I ought to hasten my descent
Her father lifted up his eyes, Jane was distressed, Elizabeth looked
“And is this all?” cried Elizabeth. “I expected at least that the pigs
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
now.”
people; but you are too considerate to make inquiries.”
“How should _I_ know?” said Alice, surprised at her own courage. “It’s
boundless grandeur for realities of little worth.
wonder nor condemn; but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing
other communications, that he was the son of old Wickham, the late Mr.
“Certainly not!” said Alice indignantly.
extinguish his malice. The prospect did not move me to fear; yet when I
feelings with regard to my family, and may take possession of Longbourn
better looking. It is what everybody says. I do not trust my own
“Do you not feel a great inclination, Miss Bennet, to seize such an
regard. But Bingley has great natural modesty, with a stronger
approaching tapped me on the shoulder and said, “Come, sir, you must
of Clerval—all left behind, on whom the monster might satisfy his
living things! Yet you, my creator, detest and spurn me, thy creature,
of him first in rather a romantic manner, from a lady who owes to him the
sought erroneous methods to remedy the incurable ill. He wished me to
sometimes, “Do bats eat cats?” for, you see, as she couldn’t answer
after receiving his explanatory letter. Both sisters were uncomfortable
acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurances of his eagerness to
is unaccountable!”
heart. Unable to endure the aspect of the being I had created, I
Mr. Collins on his return highly gratified Mrs. Bennet by admiring Mrs.
mourner.
mountain’s weight and their excess destroyed my agony beneath them.
any other being that wore the human form.
through habit and association, but from their own merits; and wherever
as well as Elizabeth, really loved them; and they were both ever
and to discharge the obligation as soon as he could.
respect of a peculiar kind; doubtless), with which one regards Mr.
Darcy’s, but you shall do as you choose.”
“During the ensuing days, while the preparations were going forward for
dimmed by the burning drops, until, giving way to the emotions that
“I’ll fetch the executioner myself,” said the King eagerly, and he
should be very sorry to be the means of making any of you unhappy; but
fairly conjectured from _that_,--though Elizabeth, who was by this time
to prevail on Mr. Bennet to return to Longbourn as soon as he could, to
your feelings as a man will not revolt from the execution of those
well.”
when I have bought some prettier-coloured satin to trim it with fresh, I
doing out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and
Chapter 18
Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect,
if you _do_.”
fortune, that an early marriage would at all interfere with any future
excite the sympathy of some existing thing; do not deny me my
having two men-servants go with her. Miss Darcy, the daughter of Mr.
excellent opportunity; yet, when I proceeded to execute my plan, my
itself up and straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for
unquiet thing that wandered restless in a scene so beautiful and
Bennet and her daughters apologized most civilly for Lydia’s
philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given.
place since you left us. The blue lake and snow-clad mountains—they
“So much love and eloquence”                                         156
believed he might have the best informed mind.
a good memory is unpardonable. This is the last time I shall ever
warmest admiration and affection. My future hopes and prospects are
up, determined to throw them into the sea that very night; and in the
ice, it was impossible to follow his track, which we had observed with the
however, was no evil to Elizabeth, and upon the whole she spent her time
also made her a slight bow, and said he was “very glad;” but diffuseness
Their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above
seen, that on both sides we meet only as common and indifferent
and decorum which, in exposing his wife to the contempt of her own
Alice sighed wearily. “I think you might do something better with the
Elizabeth was forced to go.
disheartened, had never yet despaired of succeeding at last.
Longbourn in a few days’ time.
never deserts him; but with the rich he is liberal-minded, just,
Montanvert. I remembered the effect that the view of the tremendous
all. She does not yet leave her dressing-room. Mary and Kitty, thank
and divine a retreat as Pandæmonium appeared to the dæmons of hell
sooner or later.
“I hope Mr. Bingley will like it”                                      6
hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she
And so it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face
paid him; but these violent young lovers carry everything their own
were received with a good deal of eagerness: there could not but be
we have gone--we _will_ recollect what we have seen. Lakes, mountains,
silence again.
happy with him?”
accomplished, is their marriage to be prevented by a young woman of
was an uncouth man, but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science. He
]
that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will
me, we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our
“Oh, I know!” exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this last
Daughters are never of so much consequence to a father. And if you will
return without delay to Geneva, there to watch over the lives of those
your own speedy ruin.”
get into the garden, and I don’t care which happens!”
as comfortable as possible. And I do not think it of light importance
boundary, which was skirted by a deep and rapid river, into which many
attentively to all that passed between them, and gloried in every
conversation, although I applied my whole mind to the endeavour, for I
could I do? He meant to please, and he tormented me. I felt as if he
marriage with our dear Elizabeth as the tie of our domestic comfort and the
time. First of all, he asked Miss Lucas. I was so vexed to see him stand
about her looks. But her chief difference from other heroines of the
take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear
ground as she spoke; “either you or your head must be off, and that in
one time.”
estate whenever it falls, without any self-reproach. This matter may be
may gain some news of them; and till we know that they are not married,
timidly, saying to herself “Suppose it should be raving mad after all!
Good God! Margaret, if you had seen the man who thus capitulated for
go--and, at another word, might stay a month.”
brilliancy; and her features are not at all handsome. Her nose wants
infant days, no mother had blessed me with smiles and caresses; or if
But here she did injustice to the fire and independence of his
and she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at
to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.
had a far different effect upon me from the _Sorrows of Werter_. I
never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her. He really
them, she concluded her to be anticipating the hour of possession; and
raised them in her opinion. Her affections had been continually
dropped it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
regard to Lydia at least, which was now to be settled, and Mr. Bennet
visitor. As she had heard no carriage, she thought it not unlikely to be
circumstances made it a most eligible match for their daughter, to whom
of life even in the excess of misery! I constructed another sail with a
abode, fairer than a garden rose among dark-leaved brambles.
Had she known that her sister sought to tear her from such prospects and
really died away, or were suppressed by his friends’ interference;
speeches of Mr. Collins, who was complimenting Mr. Bingley and his
peaks shone in the sunlight over the clouds. My heart, which was
is it?” he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his
as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley might like you the best of the
gratefully inscribed_
to be in any way serviceable to a human creature.’
affection. They conversed with one another through the means of an
sometimes felt a wish to console him, but when I looked upon him, when
deprived.”
“An excellent consolation in its way,” said Elizabeth; “but it will not
for it clearly, there seemed little chance of her ever considering it
monster followed me and would discover himself to me when I should have
and the ladies all felt that he must add considerably to the pleasure of
them, from what she saw, to be very seriously in love, their preference
[Illustration]
cheerful as before I was attacked by the fatal passion.
nought; but if not, depart, depart, and leave me in darkness.”
“But if that is the case, you must write to your mother to beg that you
rather have been for ever ignorant than have discovered so much
how really happy he was.
other, would have told it all. _Their_ situation was awkward enough; but
of activity and spirit. He is desirous to be a true Swiss and to enter
warmth and rest only that I need.’
Mr, Wickham was as far beyond them all in person, countenance, air, and
_this_; though I doubt whether _his_ reserve, or _anybody’s_
it, as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into my hands, as
journey, and brought its master back to Longbourn.
never-ending source of speculation and astonishment. The gentle and
of grave reflection, soon after they were seated at table,--
From Italy they visited Germany and France. I, their eldest child, was born
was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving one
“‘Do you consider,’ said his companion to him,
longed to enter the world and take my station among other human beings.
to see him again, that I might wreak the utmost extent of abhorrence on his
“I cannot bear to think that they should have all this estate. If it was
“—change lobsters, and retire in same order,” continued the Gryphon.
the highest kind. They soon outstripped the others; and when they had
relations for whom there was no need to blush. She listened most
destroyed, lay scattered on the floor, and I almost felt as if I had
is so excessively handsome! and his sisters are charming women. I never
from which she had been so wholly free at first. Her ease and good
“You appear to me, Mr. Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence of
next morning to her mother, to beg that the carriage might be sent for
Frankenstein—he will punish you. You dare not keep me.’
what I was doing. My heart palpitated in the sickness of fear, and I
of his Normans—’ How are you getting on now, my dear?” it continued,
devoted my creator, the select specimen of all that is worthy of love and
The gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have
earth there is no comfort which I am capable of receiving.”
overwhelming event? Mine has been a tale of horrors; I have reached their
locks of ragged hair; but one vast hand was extended, in colour and
rather a handsome pig, I think.” And she began thinking over other
indifference towards Jane, when not immediately before them, restored
to play and sing before anybody and everybody! If my vanity had taken a
cause the death of two of my fellow beings: one a smiling babe full of
ladies he certainly was nothing; but he had still at intervals a kind
me to comply with his hellish desires. I put my hand before my eyes,
friend the certain evils of such a choice. I described and enforced them
protested that he never read novels. Kitty stared at him, and Lydia
at Rosings, had she seen him so desirous to please, so free from
While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing
affection for her, for a woman who had already refused him, as able to
Elizabeth was soon lost to everything else; and, after a pause of
“Well, then, you need not be under any alarm. I will take care of
“When we were little,” the Mock Turtle went on at last, more calmly,
will be answered.”
this. My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers.
“They were not entirely happy. The young man and his companion often
differentiated with such unerring skill the effects of folly and
she had never felt a wish of inquiring. His countenance, voice, and
“She is tolerable: but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; and I am in no
He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before on his reading
“You are a very strange creature by way of a friend!--always wanting me
“I never saw one, or heard of one,” said Alice.
their journey, gave them directions as to the best method of packing,
know.”
and under sentence of execution.
understand you,” she said, as politely as she could.
“If we make haste,” said Lydia, as they walked along, “perhaps we may
greatest attention.
deformity.
acquaintance of those to whom his attentions were addressed, would draw
what a wonderful dream it had been.
from me a letter of thanks for this as well as for every other mark of
would become her to pursue in this emergency. A residence in Turkey
at sunset I arrived at a village. How miraculous did this appear! The
consequence as _this_ should ensue, you may easily believe was far
“Well! _What_ are you?” said the Pigeon. “I can see you’re trying to
party. Their table was superlatively stupid. Scarcely a syllable was
most unhappily deceived; and by her connivance and aid he so far
vice and bloodshed, my wonder ceased and I turned away with disgust and
wretchedness. My father loved Beaufort with the truest friendship and
and the cool fountains.
absolutely resolved on remaining where she was. She cared for none
began another. Mary’s powers were by no means fitted for such a display;
théâtre; _it connects itself in the strictest way with the course of the
hastened to console Lady Catherine and her daughter; and on his return
Turtle.”
dark gloom spread over my listener’s countenance. At first I
unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it
Christian forgiveness! The rest of his letter is only about his dear
with a safe conscience; it were well if everybody did the same.”
dared to fancy amiable and lovely creatures sympathising with my
society was enchanting to her.
I had passed three weeks in this journey; and the continual protraction
and clock, which indicated the sixth hour. The porter opened the gates
reserve, to Mrs. Collins; and whatever might be his feelings towards her
Winter, spring, and summer passed away during my labours; but I did not
country. We possessed a house in Geneva, and a _campagne_ on Belrive,
between Colonel Fitzwilliam and herself only the morning before; and at
Heading to Preface                                                    ix
father’s behaviour as a husband. She had always seen it with pain; but
firm hold on my mind; perhaps, if my first introduction to humanity had
“There’s no sort of use in knocking,” said the Footman, “and that for
about its relative situation. Let _our_ first effusions be less
you, write!
The day of my departure at length arrived. Clerval spent the last
know.”
To this question his daughter replied only with a laugh; and as it had
another very welcome surprise; for his chief wish at present was to have
does the beauties of nature. The starry sky, the sea, and every sight
The fact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference, of officious
cheerfully; and although the spring was uncommonly late, when it came
procure.
great while since she had been there.
had yet learnt to care for at a ball. They returned, therefore, in good
except in very rare instances, as a vagabond and a slave, doomed to
in her life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls were live
“This will not do,” said Elizabeth; “you never will be able to make both
the room together, with either of which motives his joining them would
to the door.
frame. In a solitary chamber, or rather cell, at the top of the house,
did not despair. From you only could I hope for succour, although
uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Mrs. Jenkinson
alone in a little boat, watching the clouds and listening to the
“With the officers!” cried Lydia: “I wonder my aunt did not tell us of
affronted by their advice; and Lydia, self-willed and careless, would
death his throat who never injured me or any other living thing. I have
apparent texture like that of a mummy. When he heard the sound of my
while he was present Jane had no attention to bestow on anyone else: but
and absurdities by which some part of her family were connected with
of all that she had heard. It was not to be supposed that any other
his own house was replaced by the greatest affability and kindness. I
She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt
long pause of reflection I concluded that the justice due both to him and
Scotland and finish my work in solitude. I did not doubt but that the
card-party, and was sitting upstairs with Kitty.
remains—revenge, henceforth dearer than light or food! I may die, but
What a triumph for him, as she often thought, could he know that the
being in Kent. They contained no actual complaint, nor was there any
tone, and added with a kind of sob, “I’ve tried every way, and nothing
the apartments below; and were informed that it was but just done to
rich, long out of marital authority, and so forth, had opportunities of
“Well, and so, just as the carriage came to the door, my uncle was
where my poor William had been murdered. As I could not pass through the
word of wishing to see me again, and was, in every respect, so
daughter. His ease and cheerfulness rendered him a most agreeable
the commission of his crimes, and no one can conjecture to what place he
necessary to restore his composure.
might have by degrees worked other alterations, which, although they were
other was deceived; but when at morning’s dawn I descended to the
So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
may have half my good luck. They must all go to Brighton. That is the
listener, whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she
imprudence, I am happy to add, that I owed the knowledge of it to
friend from his door with contumely? Why do you not execrate the rustic
The paling of Rosings park was their boundary on one side. Elizabeth
Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he’d do almost anything
“The entreaties of several”                                           31
affording a wider scope for your revenge?”
before Tuesday; and in her postscript it was added, that if Mr. Bingley
put them into a basket, with a great quantity of stones, and laying them
degree interesting. It was next to impossible that their cousin should
spoken, but I did not hear; one hand was stretched out, seemingly to
for such a visit, was delighted at her entrance. She was not equal,
friend had once occurred to Elizabeth within the last day or two: but
beings of a superior nature, but I was wretched, helpless, and alone.
depravity and ungratitude in one I valued so highly.”
as I might have done. But the horror of what might possibly happen
mother only scolded her for being nonsensical.
his dancing and his partner.
Whatever he might afterwards persuade her to, it was not on her side a
her if she had seen anything of the child who was lost. She was
mornings to driving him out in his gig, and showing him the country: but
halo around him, within whose circle no grief or folly ventures.
attributed to his connection with them, but yet he had never met with so
him. The rest of the evening passed with the _appearance_, on his side,
turned silently away. Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete
indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the subject will
of nature and show how she works in her hiding-places. They ascend into the
through, I am afraid, is pitiful.”
“Then you should say what you mean,” the March Hare went on.
she had not happened to see Mr. Jones’s shopboy in the street, who had
that lay on the instrument, how frequently Mr. Darcy’s eyes were fixed
told her to write to him, and almost promised to answer her letter.
disconcerted. She could not imagine what business he could have in town
and real information, combined, it is true, with a repulsive
Jane will die of a broken heart, and then he will be sorry for what he
very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder?” And here
Oh! When will my guiding spirit, in conducting me to the dæmon, allow
his neck, a murmur of horror and indignation filled the court.
is unspeakable when I reflect that the murderer, whom I have turned
with the friends of my youth, but I awoke and found myself in a
were it not for the most verdant islands that relieve the eye by their gay
natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if
apologizing for being next in the entail? We cannot suppose he would
September 7th.
persuade herself that she did not regret it; but she could no longer be
“And did the man whom you pursued travel in the same fashion?”
Mr. Bennet’s property consisted almost entirely in an estate of two
Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards got up and walked about
crevices in the ice, among which I had walked with caution; his
Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled
promise of creating another like to him, and trembling with passion,
consolation. Elizabeth also wept and was unhappy, but hers also was
of _Plutarch’s Lives_, and the _Sorrows of Werter_. The
last she was referred for the truth of every particular to Colonel
him happy if they had. My friend has an excellent understanding--though
heart never to resume my labours; and then, with trembling steps, I
magnificent appearances of things, I delighted in investigating their
ponies is delightful. We will go round the park every day. I am the
might be useful to my fellow creatures. When I reflected on the work I had
“I cannot be so easily reconciled to myself. The recollection of what I
fitted for such a work, being hardly more than a rock whose high sides were
appreciate the extraordinary merits of this wonderful man. Sometimes I
and her sister, just returned from their walk. The _tête-à-tête_
He had been some time with Mr. Gardiner, who, with two or three other
kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time can remove. No
laudable in a precipitance which must leave very necessary business
intend; for he would certainly think the better of me if, under such a
“In such cases as this, it is, I believe, the established mode to
“I am astonished, my dear,” said Mrs. Bennet, “that you should be so
of what might be called economy in her own private expenses, she
from my fatigue, until I felt tormented by hunger and thirst. This
chattered, and I was forced to lean against a tree for support. The figure
they could give little fortune; and his prospects of future wealth were
while.
CHAPTER X.     The Lobster Quadrille
signs which appeared to me to mean that he had been sorrowful until she
This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a
thirsted would be children, and a race of devils would be propagated upon
on the first of September than anybody else in the country.
whenever she spoke in a low voice to Mr. Collins, was convinced that
_know_ it must be a scandalous falsehood, though I would not injure him
her, to come to Rosings every day, and play on the pianoforte in Mrs.
sister—the beautiful and adored companion of all my occupations and
“I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley’s conduct to design,”
practice to say it over) “—yes, that’s about the right distance—but
the report, which was in general circulation within five minutes after
Heading to Chapter XXXIV.                                            235
earliest sensations I can remember.
not for the entail, I should not mind it.”
assertion; when I thus accused myself, he sometimes seemed to desire an
[Illustration]
“No, no. You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised, if I
the fellow!” cried he; “why, M. Clerval, I assure you he has
gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast; for she was in
record, as nearly as possible in his own words, what he has related during
and Lydia; but while they were supported by their mother’s indulgence,
left Hunsford,--between our pools at quadrille, while Mrs. Jenkinson was
nearer together. Elizabeth was of a calmer and more concentrated
commanded herself so far as to examine the meaning of every sentence.
agony crept over my frame. Before, I had only imagined the
Bingleys and Jane; and she thought he looked a little confused as he
their faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of
Jane’s marrying so greatly must throw them in the way of other rich men;
pleases.”
heightened the sense of what Jane had lost. His affection was proved to
delighted with it that he agreed with Mr. Morris immediately; that he is
reassured the suppliant, and on being informed of the name of her lover,
despair had penetrated into the core of my heart; I bore a hell within
“To walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever it is,
saying,--
there _with_ his friend’s permission, or being bold enough to come
hour had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva very irksome
Thus ended a day memorable to me; it decided my future destiny.
kitchen stove. By slow degrees he recovered and ate a little soup,
burst of tears, “I do wish they _would_ put their heads down! I am so
Frankenstein, who had at first been silent, and indeed appeared hardly
of an hour’s _tête-à-tête_ with Mrs. Bennet before breakfast, a
“just like a star-fish,” thought Alice. The poor little thing was
restoration of peace dismissed them to a home, was unsettled in the
know of her character. I am well acquainted with the accused. I have lived
could, but there was no escaping the frequent mention of Wickham’s name.
black woods, high and inaccessible. This part of the Rhine, indeed,
“Oh dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain. Lady Lucas herself
called he swore positively that just before the fall of his companion, he
“Be happy, my dear Victor,” replied Elizabeth; “there is, I hope,
nor can I find there was any intention of being so; but if you are
But will they make you happy?”
Mrs. Reynolds anticipated Miss Darcy’s delight, when she should enter
can have her own way. But I tell you what, Miss Lizzy, if you take it
would follow me and exempt my family from the danger of his
Between yourself and me.”
“And you saw him frequently?”
receive strangers so inhospitably.”
husband’s room, crossing the road, and immediately running into the
roused me from my nearly dormant state, and I ate some berries which I
“He is as fine a fellow,” said Mr. Bennet, as soon as they were out of
worked up her mind to an appearance of courage. When she entered the
society of her two friends, and the attentions of their brother; and
down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and was so much
very great moment, should you think ill of that person for complying
resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried
her prey, and I should soon have sunk beneath this misery. Once, after
Elizabeth’s anger against him had been long done away; but had she still
notwithstanding all the evidence produced against her, I believe and rely
could _not_ stand, and she went round the court and got behind him, and
with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think—” (she was rather
heard it, the whole truth rushed into my mind, my arms dropped, the
down, resolving within herself to draw no limits in future to the
grief, they subdued and tranquillised it. In some degree, also, they
against me, and I hope the character I have always borne will incline my
Elizabeth allowed that he had given a very rational account of it, and
and she was undetermined whether most to be pleased that he explained
This was invitation enough.
[Illustration]
to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so
I kept my workshop of filthy creation; my eyeballs were starting from
“how glad I am to see you! How fortunate that you should be here at
your wedding-night._” That, then, was the period fixed for the
required of you is, to assure to your daughter, by settlement, her
attended the motions of the cottagers, and when they were dispersed in
to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words
“they entered the breakfast room”
assembly-room, it consisted of only five altogether: Mr. Bingley, his
“I did not know before that you ever walked this way.”
“Offended two or three young ladies”
therefore, whether you object to an immediate solemnisation of the
manuscript will doubtless afford you the greatest pleasure; but to me, who
Forster. I thought I should have died. And _that_ made the men suspect
but they were now necessary, and she assured him, with some confusion,
months. Of having another daughter married to Mr. Collins she thought
is also comprehended. She will follow wherever Lydia leads. Vain,
was to admit an idea so destructive to Jane’s happiness, and so
“Lizzy, you must not do so. You must not suspect me. It mortifies me. I
road, the house standing in it, the green pales and the laurel hedge,
some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded
charnel-houses. My attention was fixed upon every object the most
to prolong the deceit until it might be no longer necessary, and
form, and I saw the grave-worms crawling in the folds of the flannel.
“The first thing I’ve got to do,” said Alice to herself, as she
CHAPTER XXXIV.
the less polished societies of the world: every savage can dance.”
this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying. Though he had
with her husband that the office of introduction should be hers, it was
I can believe him capable. If, indeed, it should be so! But I dare not
opportunities for the display of the peculiar and incomparable talent to
“We are not in a way to know _what_ Mr. Bingley likes,” said her mother,
one readily yield to a request, without waiting for arguments to reason
“‘It is utterly useless,’ replied Felix; ‘we can
Mr. Bennet raised his eyes from his book as she entered, and fixed them
the two gentlemen came directly towards them, and began the usual
to notice this last remark.
fiend should openly attack me. I carried pistols and a dagger
him, that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of
“I shall not say that you are mistaken,” he replied, “because you could
pain she was then giving her beloved friend, she undoubtedly would have
]
hope it. Why should they not go on to Scotland, if that had been the
“You may well warn me against such an evil. Human nature is so prone to
frightful catalogue of my sins, I cannot believe that I am the same
ten days’ time. He sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably
occasion of introducing him to her father and mother.
otherwise he would command.
other had ever seen him. Bingley of course returned with him to dinner;
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
my neck, and screamed aloud with agony and terror. Fortunately, as I spoke
believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent as to
Alas! I did not yet entirely know the fatal effects of this miserable
easy, that every servant will cheat you; and so generous, that you will
herself. She remembered that he had yet to learn to be laughed at, and
four inches deep and reaching half down the hall.
Elizabeth, in the solitude of her chamber, had to meditate upon
from your power.”
“If it was to be a secret,” said Jane, “say not another word on the
one into it. I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have
“But,” he added, “you will of course wish to have your humble respects
expectation delayed fills them with fear, and I almost dread a mutiny
Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, determined to go to her, though the
congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took
“All! What, all five out at once? Very odd! And you only the second. The
surmounting all, the beautiful Mont Blanc, and the assemblage of snowy
shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of
I hesitated not in giving, of your sister’s indifference. He had before
woody hills; and in front a stream of some natural importance was
eyes would reply to mine. You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I
Heads below!” (a loud crash)—“Now, who did that?—It was Bill, I
herself was tolerably composed. She had gained her point, and had time
had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was
“To go instantly to Geneva: come with me, Henry, to order the horses.”
lost in darkness and distance.
“It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not
to employ for captivation. Whatever bears affinity to cunning is
precepts, at least by my example, how dangerous is the acquirement of
immediately; while his sisters, convinced that no country advice could
again!” which produced another dead silence.
Lucas Lodge, therefore, (for through their communication with the
never beheld aught beautiful before. The silver hair and benevolent
occasioned some surprise had not all the senses of the cottagers been
you. But amidst your concern for the defects of your nearest relations,
thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me.”
being next in the entail of Longbourn estate will be kindly
was fitted up and arranged with a neatness and consistency, of which
insupportable than those of the generality of travellers.”
very gravely--“but I cannot imagine that her Ladyship would at all
contrived to have the earliest tidings of it, that the period of anxiety
account to myself for the birth of that passion which afterwards ruled my
in general are not more like her. Does she live near you, sir?”
and good-humoured countenance; a favourite with her mother, whose
most affectionate mother. For my own part, I do not hesitate to say that,
dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you were
before he complimented Mrs. Bennet on having so fine a family of
remain in the society of men. But she was innocent. I know, I feel
story, so many opinions are canvassed and so many lights thrown upon
for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in
partiality. When she was only fifteen there was a gentleman at my
rarely visited my heart; a high destiny seemed to bear me on, until I fell,
when the gates of Geneva were shut, and she was forced to remain
only can tell. But whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. Wickham has
that could be so called. The respect created by the conviction of his
which no one could partake; and she was sensible that nothing less than
“Ah, you do not know what I suffer.”
pronounced him to be infinitely superior to anything they had expected.
extremely surprised, was not unwilling to receive it, when she instantly
other, and opening it with the utmost impatience, read as follows: it
“I want to know,” said she, with a countenance no less smiling than her
our own country.”
joy-imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me. And then I bent over
were to find that she was a reputed beauty; and I particularly recollect
when nature, overcome by hunger, sank under the exhaustion, a repast
pleased.
would sing again, she was eagerly succeeded at the instrument by her
messages to his sister. Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley were at piquet, and
[Illustration]
moment. At least, therefore, I did not assume the character of needless
earth, the habitations of another race of beings.
keep, through all her riper years, the simple and loving heart of her
in my own case; the want of connection could not be so great an evil to
fatigued with excess of bodily exertion and sank on the damp grass in
greatest danger in an unequal marriage. You could scarcely escape
think of nothing but of Mr. Wickham, and of what he had told her, all
grow shorter.”
a solitude where nothing could for an instant call my attention from
“_That_ generally takes some time,” interrupted the Gryphon.
two daughters married; and the man whom she could not bear to speak of
various arguments that he had used and determined at least to listen to
yourselves cowards. Oh! Be men, or be more than men. Be steady to your
They found Mary, as usual, deep in the study of thorough bass and human
certainly unjust. Everybody believed that poor girl to be guilty; and
“She did not choose it,” said her daughter; “she would go.”
and quenched in infinite wretchedness. Sometimes he commanded his
we shall do.”
“We have dined nine times at Rosings, besides drinking tea there twice!
“Please would you tell me,” said Alice, a little timidly, for she was
“I have heard much of your master’s fine person,” said Mrs. Gardiner,
“Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!” the Duchess said to Alice,
In a few minutes after, I heard the creaking of my door, as if some one
various subjects, reflecting confusedly on my misfortunes and their
husband, there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear to me. But,
in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now
and invariably silly.
up entirely their wandering life and fixed themselves in their native
one sleepless night out of two.
was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low
spent more time in amusement and conversation, and were assisted in
“At any rate I’ll never go _there_ again!” said Alice as she picked her
and abortive creation, and entertained the greatest disdain for a
until he or I shall perish in mortal conflict. For this purpose I will
Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come
every human creature, he did not wish to be present at the agonies and
“As the night advanced, a fierce wind arose from the woods and quickly
knew that I was preparing for myself a deadly torture, but I was the
feeling to worldly advantage. Charlotte, the wife of Mr. Collins, was a
Thank heaven! he has _some_ friends, though, perhaps, not so many as he
memory of past misfortunes pressed upon me, I began to reflect on their
the usual price of an earl’s younger son? Unless the elder brother is
dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively
After walking two or three times along that part of the lane, she was
“We shall often meet, I hope, in Hertfordshire.”
called out to her in an angry tone, “Why, Mary Ann, what _are_ you
that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy. May I ask
end of it he only made him a slight bow, and moved another way: Mr.
though in the case before us I consider myself more fitted by education
advanced.
[Illustration]
would perhaps be called resentful. My good opinion once lost is lost for
Elizabeth read on: “I have seen them both. They are not married,
Thus are my hopes blasted by cowardice and indecision; I come back
right size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden—how
though feeling no reliance on her, could not help writing her a much
expectations of felicity to be rationally founded, because they had for
every virtue.”
[later editions continued as follows
that could easily be proved; accordingly I followed my conductor in silence
“What should not you mind?”
“Your humility, Mr. Bingley,” said Elizabeth, “must disarm reproof.”
the country.
discover what I knew of the murderer, and cause instant pursuit to be
circumstance, added to his well-known integrity and dauntless courage, made
business as well as her aunt, and amongst the rest there were notes to
Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet:
country is, you know. Please, Ma’am, is this New Zealand or Australia?”
revolted, in his offer to herself. “What will be his surprise,” thought
affairs to discuss, or because you are conscious that your figures
was returned in due form. Miss Bennet’s pleasing manners grew on the
softened feelings stole into my heart and dared to whisper paradisiacal
comparison. It has sometimes, I believe, been urged that his pride is
everything that was charming, except the professed lover of her
“I cannot see why Mrs. Forster should not ask _me_ as well as Lydia,”
refinements of polished societies.”
prison was as welcome a residence as the divinest scene in nature; and
and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him.
heart of mortal can most desire,--splendid property, noble kindred, and
their wish of seeing Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, and Miss Bennet, to dinner
that _would_ always get into her eyes—and still as she listened, or
pleasure seemed to her sacrilege toward the dead; eternal woe and tears she
irksome to me. Sometimes I could not prevail on myself to enter my
deemed marvellous. Were we among the tamer scenes of nature I might
minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and
about.”
more refined and moral. A servant in Geneva does not mean the same
“If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at Netherfield,”
formed, as he and the females of the family were sitting together in the
Mr. Denny and Mr. Wickham walked with the young ladies to the door of
This cannot be! This must be the grossest falsehood!”--and when she had
everything that Alice said; “there’s a large mustard-mine near here.
Netherfield for London on the day following, as you, I am certain,
of Elizabeth shone like a shrine-dedicated lamp in our peaceful home.
Mr. Gardiner did not write again, till he had received an answer from
“I confess, my son, that I have always looked forward to your
day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the
was more than either the gentleman or lady concerned in it
The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news, and
favourable, do you think that any consideration would tempt me to accept
distressed himself. A small sum could not do all this.”
detain me, but I escaped and rushed downstairs. I took refuge in the
moment, he set about it in a very orderly manner, with all the
of.”
he became more attentive and interested; I saw him sometimes shudder with
accidents, winter and snow arrived, the roads were deemed impassable,
to Derbyshire; and Jane and Elizabeth, in addition to every other source
Alice heard the Rabbit say, “A barrowful will do, to begin with.”
sound, and that you would never act in this way yourself.”
Cumberland and Westmorland. I could now almost fancy myself among the
“It is a very good height indeed!” said the Caterpillar angrily,
atmosphere and permitted to return to my native country. I did not
of the words uttered by my protectors.
which produced it is set in view; the minutest description of my odious
cares of life. I determined to go without a guide, for I was well
circumstances of the transaction.
“Oh, Justine!” said she. “Why did you rob me of my last consolation?
terrible destruction.
question but the desire of being well married; and if I were determined
and abhorred voice, apparently close to my ear, addressed me in an
opinions not entirely unalterable, they are not, I hope, quite so easily
well remembered the words of my father: “I know that while you are
Bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave London, and
tell its age, there was no more to be said.
night so liberally bestowed, respecting each circumstance, I shall hope
his life! It is admirable!”
Hertfordshire: her mild and steady candour always pleaded for
coolly, “will be rather a confirmation of it--if, indeed, such a report
with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said so.
“But I’m not used to it!” pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And she
more than one school of critics, that construction is not the highest
is considered as a remarkably early season, so that perhaps I may sail
you’re to go down the chimney!”
indifference?”
could not help answering her; but she said he seemed very angry at being
frost and desolation; it ever presents itself to my imagination as the
circumstances, he assured me, and I had no difficulty in believing it,
attempted to deny, soon overcame the pity which the consideration of his
“Ay, so it is,” cried her mother, “and Mrs. Long does not come back till
university, and I found even in M. Krempe a great deal of sound sense
received, not merely from the presence of such a mistress, but the
chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can boast on
of her chair, not knowing which way to look. Elizabeth found herself
tenderness than of pride. His sense of her inferiority, of its being a
that used to come once a week: _he_ taught us Drawling, Stretching, and
I left Switzerland with you; I crept along the shores of the Rhine, among
united with great strength of feeling, a composure of temper and an
A woman deposed that she lived near the beach and was standing at the door
“They told me you had been to her,
persecutor. Sometimes I sat with my eyes fixed on the ground, fearing
into sleep.
She highly approved his forbearance; and they had leisure for a full
delightful sensations. A serene sky and verdant fields filled me with
with all their melancholy sweetness; I see his thin hand raised in
proud, to be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all his
thankfulness towards the blessed sun, which bestowed such joy upon me.
earliest infancy; you studied together, and appeared, in dispositions and
introduction, but I am ill-qualified to recommend myself to strangers.”
means, for his coming next morning to shoot with her husband.
at the sight. I quickly destroyed part of my sledge to construct oars, and
followed him and closed with him in mortal strife? But I had suffered him
intrusion, by letting her know that he had understood all the ladies to
language of my heart, to give utterance to the burning ardour of my soul
I had no conception that vessels ever came so far north and was astounded
its elementary terms. After having made a few preparatory experiments, he
contempt. It appeared to her merely the suggestion of Caroline’s
“Well, well, and so Mr. Bingley is coming down, sister,” (for Mrs.
accents, and maternal Nature bade me weep no more. Then again the
voice would answer in the affirmative! My courage and my resolution is
sure of success if he had not been to leave Hertfordshire so very soon.
condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?”
Such were the lessons of my father. But to me the remembrance of the
several times. I wonder what he can be doing there.”
have!”
conceal your age.”
September 12th.
seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman in
the conversation of my friend. Study had before secluded me from the
sensible that no time was to be lost in detaching their brother, we
prepared to admire them. At present I will not say more, but, perhaps,
distinguish was the bright moon, and I fixed my eyes on that with
“When I said that he improved on acquaintance, I did not mean that
speeches a slight pertness, but that is nothing, and when she comes to
“I do not blame Jane,” she continued, “for Jane would have got Mr.
disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the acutest
“I cannot see that London has any great advantage over the country, for
over before I arrived; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked
He took the hint and soon began with, “This seems a very comfortable
therefore acquiesced, but she was filled with disquiet at the idea of
had shed for many months, streamed from my eyes, and I resolved not to fall
calling yesterday to thank me? She finds Miss Pope a treasure. ‘Lady
CHAPTER LVIII.
was all astonishment at the effect of the meeting. Both changed colour,
ball.”
alarming nature reached me two days ago. I was told, that not only your
representation of all this might make me quite easy. But I know the
character, though he had assured her that respect for the father would
pleasure in being at Hunsford, her love of solitary walks, and her
a hasty step. This noble war in the sky elevated my spirits; I clasped my
together. They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too. It
“What do you mean by that?” said the Caterpillar sternly. “Explain
to you at the time had merited the severest reproof. It was
obtain absolution; but now that falsehood lies heavier at my heart than
I could not collect the courage to recommence my work. I feared the
forward, and endeavour to remedy an evil which had been brought on
and hellish monster drink deep of agony; let him feel the despair that now
shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than you have now given
must confess. Not that I mean to find fault with _you_, for such things,
felt himself at ease; yet there had been _that_ in his voice, which was
or anybody that she resents Darcy’s first ill-mannered personality with
disagreeable partner for a couple of dances can give. The moment of her
intricate character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours.”
labours I endured were no longer to be alleviated by the bright sun or
was of no trifling nature. What praise is more valuable than the praise
“I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the entail. How
continually beaten upon by the waves. The soil was barren, scarcely
“Oh, my dear brother,” replied Mrs. Bennet, “that is exactly what I
possessed attractions for me. It was the secrets of heaven and earth
“I have every reason in the world to think ill of you. No motive can
so miserable as I was; so frightful an event is single in the history of
master, I suppose, and _that_, in the eye of a servant, comprehends
there must be a triumph.
that he is always here so often. It is on your account that he has been
as you are, you must know how it is to be done.”
To Mr. Darcy it was welcome intelligence: Elizabeth had been at
The season of the assizes approached. I had already been three months
was settled _near_ her family.”
were speaking of just now.”
When the dancing recommenced, however, and Darcy approached to claim her
civilities towards herself, and heard his frequent attempt at a
Alice was thoroughly puzzled. “Does the boots and shoes!” she repeated
entered into conversation, using violent gesticulations; but I did not
“Ah, sir, I do indeed. It is a grievous affair to my poor girls, you
any share of the like censure is praise no less generally bestowed on
minutely concerning my father, and here I named my cousin.
of a few jewels, to have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend,
exhibited. He said that “These were men to whose indefatigable zeal
Christmas.”
future prospects. The first of those sorrows which are sent to wean us from
long sleeves.”
to be disposed of, she could not understand the sacrifice of so many
(for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of
hitherto attended the schools of Geneva, but my father thought it
unusually choice--of Austenians or Janites, there would probably be
“Of course not,” Alice replied very readily: “but that’s because it
master the language; and I may boast that I improved more rapidly than
night; names, facts, everything mentioned without ceremony. If it be not
“Pride,” observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her
amiable you would have hated me for it: but in spite of the pains you
“The book from which Felix instructed Safie was Volney’s _Ruins
and have his library to himself; for thither Mr. Collins had followed
to see how his wife conducted herself; and she condescended to wait on
would be any other than highly desirable. My situation in life, my
“Lizzy,” said he, “I was going to look for you: come into my room.”
fixed them on her more and more cheerfully.
satisfaction, though while it was passing the enjoyment of it had been
desperation of her feelings, she resolved on one effort more; and,
were to entertain each other. Very little was said by either; Kitty was
ever since he was four years old.”
ambition; but how am I sunk! Oh! My friend, if you had known me as I once
“Jane, I congratulate you. You will be a very happy woman.”
he smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the most abstruse
should be at leisure. This promise drew from me the warmest thanks. I have
upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to
“And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry? Did he know of
one of the largest folios in the collection, but really talking to Mr.
“To-morrow fortnight.”
especially the opening of it, which I should dread your having the power
life. Whence, I often asked myself, did the principle of life proceed?
my father thought it best to yield. We took our passage on board a vessel
kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant girls in my
and she could even make out that one of them didn’t know how to spell
“Nothing is more deceitful,” said Darcy, “than the appearance of
even upon me. Agatha listened with respect, her eyes sometimes filled
irremediable ruin. There he lies, white and cold in death. You hate me, but
Lucas, that he was a remarkably clever, good kind of young man.
“Miss Elizabeth Bennet.”
in any doubt of your sister’s sentiments. He has heartily forgiven me
which I gave, so much does suffering blunt even the coarsest sensations
the day before; so, it will be impossible for her to introduce him, for
were to be afterwards used in putting me to a slow and cruel death. I
east of the lake.
other, and, for a few moments, she flattered herself that her wishes did
chooses that everyone connected with him should have an understanding of
me, but you have won me to alter my determination. You seek for
she had prepared her for such a step. She had known, it seems, of their
business in London.
and spoke to Elizabeth, if not in terms of perfect composure, at least
such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to Meryton once. No
this into a wish of hearing her speak of her sister, was pleased; and
at her sister and Bingley), shall take place. What congratulations will
“Pardon me for interrupting you, madam,” cried Mr. Collins; “but if she
happiest, wisest, and most reasonable end!”
was not exactly the case, the absolute fact of his absence was
their premeditated contempt. I have, therefore, made up my mind to tell
to.”
Darcy, after inquiring of her how Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner did--a question
custom, and Mary went upstairs to her instrument. Two obstacles of the
indulgence of which I was for ever barred, then impotent envy and bitter
there more than a century and a half before. It was here that Charles
remorse and guilt which would pursue me until death.
therefore, in the most honourable manner, he retreated with his
since I first began to think of him in a very different manner. The
languages engaged his attention, and I was easily induced to enter on
security for her husband’s not being killed in a duel.
desirable event takes place, as to the advantage of holding her tongue;
remarked, “If you can’t be civil, you’d better finish the story for
his note-book, cackled out “Silence!” and read out from his book, “Rule
was a liberal man, and did much good among the poor.
quarrelled last March—just before _he_ went mad, you know—” (pointing
now stood Montanvert was exactly opposite, at the distance of a league;
I see by your eagerness and the wonder and hope which your eyes
little pleasing to either, to all the comfort and elegance of their
“I mean what I say,” the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone. And
make him a very proper wife.”
perceived an envelope containing two sheets of letter paper, written
finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a
greatly lessened, when I began to distinguish my sensations from each
replied that she had been looking for the child and demanded earnestly
behaved very handsomely, for we treated the other three with the nicest
“I see your design, Bingley,” said his friend. “You dislike an argument,
that. My duties towards the beings of my own species had greater claims to
“And yours,” he replied, with a smile, “is wilfully to misunderstand
headache; and it grew so much worse towards the evening that, added to
your birth.”
never shall know joy more. But she will not, I am sure she will not;
fighting. Tell him what a dreadful state I am in--that I am frightened
depraved wretch, whose delight was in carnage and misery; had he not
minutes before the others appeared; and he took the opportunity of
time ceased to be repugnant to her feelings; and it was now heightened
tell what o’clock it is!”
with stones and wood, yet in such a manner that I might move them on
“I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than the
case, but I am glad of it, and, indeed, none of our judges like to
“I hope, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet to his wife, as they were at
CHAPTER XXXVII.
shall die, and what I now feel be no longer felt. Soon these burning
wrote.
Nothing could equal my delight on seeing Clerval; his presence brought back
sir, With no jury or judge, would be wasting our breath.’
always the way with her, for she has, without exception, the sweetest
In this perturbed state of mind, with thoughts that could rest on
fashions from Jane, who sat some way below her, and on the other,
misrepresented each to the other. It is, in short, impossible for us to
pointed dislike make it so delightfully absurd! Much as I abominate
As I still pursued my journey to the northward, the snows thickened and the
respect, so replete with advantage, so promising for happiness, Jane had
of heart and the respect and obedience paid to him by his crew, I felt
indignation filled me with an insatiable thirst for vengeance. I
provided me with fire and utensils for cooking.
were withdrawn, he thought it time to have some conversation with his
“M. Frankenstein is modest; an excellent quality in a young man.
them so faithfully! What will Wickham say? It was to be such a secret!”
beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which
force her into accepting me, because, if liable to such defects of
repeat his persuasion of their not marrying, and from _that_ I am
other, even as well as they intended. Georgiana had the highest opinion
cheerful accent, with an expression of goodness that bestowed pleasure
disinterested desire of an establishment, cared not how soon that
“You couldn’t have wanted it much,” said Alice; “living at the bottom
be made unhappy, and that it should be through her means; that _she_,
the perception of “the other side,” the sense of “the accepted hells
the wheel, continually renewed the torture?
morning, however, she was not aware of all the felicity of her
“My fingers,” said Elizabeth, “do not move over this instrument in the
hastily.
dreaded to behold. I feared to wander from the sight of my fellow
key was lying on the glass table as before, “and things are worse than
knew not how to believe that Mr. Darcy could be so unworthy of Mr.
she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.
The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave “Turn
The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. “I wasn’t asleep,” he said in a
“When they all removed to Brighton, therefore, you had no reason, I
recording it, although it is very probable that you will see me before
glad to invite him
he called them, to cast off their melancholy. He would talk in a
repugnance to new countenances. I loved my brothers, Elizabeth, and
doubted whether there were much admiration in it, and sometimes it
He trusts to you to set them free,
other trees. The path, as you ascend higher, is intersected by ravines
He thought too well of himself to comprehend on what motive his cousin
not rain, as I found it was called when the heavens poured forth its
for several years their only child. Much as they were attached to each
makes them so shiny?”
to it. By some papers of her father which fell into her hands she
wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark
tea.
old housekeeper, I suppose? Poor Reynolds, she was always very fond of
tribute of praise on the character of its late possessor, she was
could get; but at length was reduced to be reasonable. Everything
she could have been happy with him, when it was no longer likely they
land towards the south.
“and see whether it’s marked ‘_poison_’ or not”; for she had read
misrepresented.”
near a fire, over which he was preparing his breakfast. He turned on
a thousand other miseries shall torment and destroy him.’
when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry
“Are you not diverted?”
yesterday. Are you much acquainted with Mr. Darcy?”
would have done just as well.
said this last word two or three times over to herself, being rather
countenance of the aged cottager won my reverence, while the gentle
Easter was approaching, and the week preceding it was to bring an
rouses their energies, and while they hear his voice they believe these
the men, who wished to ask him a thousand questions; but I would not
disorder. He knew that I could not have a more kind and attentive
in the church, and his cousin could have none at all.
become a thing of whose existence everyone will be ignorant. My vices
lay--Oxford, Blenheim, Warwick, Kenilworth, Birmingham, etc., are
to rouse all my strength, that no physical debility might be construed into
fishing-boat land close to me, and one of the men brought me a packet;
Bingley saw all this likewise; and, in the imprudence of anger, took the
all this! and yet you can treat the mention of his misfortunes with
of his lines, or on the length of his letter, with the perfect unconcern
terms of grateful acknowledgment for the kindness of his brother, though
that very improbable event should ever take place, I shall merely be
time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and
had been discovered, Justine had been taken ill, and confined to her
By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight
of the circumstances of the preceding day, opened to them a new idea on
their sweet looks directed towards me with affection was the utmost
steps of knowledge along the paths of time and exchanged the
“Protested that he never read novels”                                 87
The Caterpillar was the first to speak.
he protested that he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in a
well-bred and agreeable. Mrs. Gardiner, who was several years younger
and returned no more, till she heard them passing through the hall to
“Shan’t,” said the cook.
and was led to one of the best houses in the town. I was ready to sink from
avowal died away on my lips. Thus I might proclaim myself a madman,
I looked on the valley beneath; vast mists were rising from the rivers
and I assure you I love her tenderly. She is very clever and gentle,
first head she could not make a mistake; her men, though limited, are
note sent to Longbourn, desiring her mother to visit Jane, and form her
were facilitated by the news which arrived from Paris.
Abbey, _its completeness, finish, and_ entrain, _obscure the undoubted
“Everybody says ‘come on!’ here,” thought Alice, as she went slowly
as a restorative for her weakened frame.
“Books--oh no!--I am sure we never read the same, or not with the same
search of the Parsonage, and every turning expected to bring it in view.
situation, hastily exclaimed, “I beg your pardon, but I must leave you.
to Elizabeth from his wife, the Longbourn family heard that the
it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him
unable to sit alone. Mary was obliged to mix more with the world, but
people could be meant than those with whom she was connected. There
possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight; I now continually
“Whatever my connections may be,” said Elizabeth, “if your nephew does
did not always love him so well as I do now; but in such cases as these
“I am by no means of opinion, I assure you,” said he, “that a ball of
Gryphon answered, very nearly in the same words as before, “It’s all
did not comprehend, but I saw that her presence diffused gladness
strain, perhaps, I have given an account of the conclusions I had come
was spoken.
that they now saw Mr. Darcy, the gardener’s expression of surprise, on
in order to have
knowledge, as there was no one to listen to her, still it was good
“So much love and eloquence”
You’re mad.”
instruments, which procured me great esteem and admiration at the
beneficence and made the doing good the end and aim of his soaring
one purpose. So much has been done, exclaimed the soul of
“But they were _in_ the well,” Alice said to the Dormouse, not choosing
as if this almost miraculous change of inclination and will was the
merely on that account; for in general, you know, they visit no new
wonder what I should be like then?” And she tried to fancy what the
“How hard it is in some cases to be believed! And how impossible in
announce her engagement to the family. With many compliments to them,
Alice’s Evidence
I was moved. I shuddered when I thought of the possible consequences
his son and brother-in-law, Daniel Nugent, when, about ten o’clock,
suffered the pangs of hunger very poignantly, especially the two
“Oh then--some time or other we shall be happy to hear you. Our
took his tools, the use of which I quickly discovered, and brought home
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 84 ***
He made no answer; and they were again silent till they had gone down
when he has nothing to do.”
formerly have rejoiced in its termination.
Longbourn, before she told her sister of Mr. Darcy’s proposals. To know
her mind was now painfully great. She knew not how to support herself,
clergyman, and his right as a rector, made him altogether a mixture of
Charlotte had hardly time to answer before they were joined by Kitty,
The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
constantly about me and was ever on the watch to prevent artifice, and
twenty-seven, without having ever been handsome, she felt all the good
Elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment.
“Of course not,” said the Mock Turtle: “why, if a fish came to _me_,
wrote cheerfully, seemed surrounded with comforts, and mentioned nothing
“Please your Majesty,” said the Knave, “I didn’t write it, and they
over puddles, with impatient activity, and finding herself at last
saw were bent the same way, and she determined not to venture near her,
matter much,” thought Alice, “as all the arches are gone from this side
tone though), “I won’t have any pepper in my kitchen _at all_. Soup
instance, fame had fallen short of the truth; and added, that he did not
“A likely story indeed!” said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest
found that the sun had already mounted considerably. The wind was high, and
Chapter 13
and down they ran into the dining-room which fronted the lane, in quest
their support; and whenever they changed their quarters, either Jane or
cousin’s conduct does not suit my feelings. Why was he to be the
heart; and if a smart young colonel, with five or six thousand a year,
yourself declared your guilt. That report, you say, is false; and be
On hearing this information I suffered a temporary access of despair.
she did; I can safely say, that every advance to intimacy began on
be of any service, recommended an express to town for one of the most
thought Alice, “they’re sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn’t it be
considering a removal from that corps as highly advisable, both on his
in the cause, could not avoid recommending moderation to her, as well in
the world has probably been right in preferring to the first rank his
little matters.”
Switzerland, appeared at once in various parts of the heavens. The
offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to
attended her sickbed; her watchful attentions triumphed over the malignity
wish he had danced with Eliza.”
156 CHARING CROSS ROAD
or folly in Bingley that could provoke his ridicule, or disgust him into
“Oh, you can’t help that,” said the Cat: “we’re all mad here. I’m mad.
affections, Greece had not been enslaved, Cæsar would have spared his
voyage we passed many willowy islands and saw several beautiful towns.
attachment to me irritated him, I believe, very early in life. He had
unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on the
were to meet us at the church.
trot away quietly into the wood. “If it had grown up,” she said to
attended to.”
Andes, could I, when there, have precipitated him to their base. I wished
painted in my face, my heart is contented. Something whispers to me
assemblies, and whether he did not think there were a great many pretty
But Elizabeth was not formed for ill-humour; and though every prospect
above her ancles in dirt, and alone, quite alone! what could she mean by
I trembled and my heart failed within me, when, on looking up, I saw by
insufficient support therein. I rather wished than believed him to be
man.
any other being in existence; but his state was far different from mine
left you conditionally only, and at the will of the present patron.”
must have had all his money, you know; and it is the first time we have
liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over. However,
endurable to Kitty and Lydia.
English language, especially when, by a glaring and gratuitous
and would not burn. I was pained at this and sat still watching the
succeeds; but, in my opinion, it is a paltry device, a very mean art.”
walked, I sought a place where I could receive shade. This was the
must abominate and despise, and where he was reduced to meet, frequently
their dear friend’s vulgar relations.
himself that Wickham’s worthlessness had not been so well known as
wretchedness? You can blast my other passions, but revenge
manners of the girl enticed my love. He played a sweet mournful air
and, when Mary had finished her second song, said aloud,--
for them of a different sort. Much had been done, and much had been said
The rest of the evening brought her little amusement. She was teased by
that what now appeared certain and tangible happiness might soon dissipate
was placed on the earth, which formed the floor, but it was dry; and
hurried on with irregular steps, not daring to look about me:
Hope was over, entirely over; and when Jane could attend to the rest of
daughters married: its solace was visiting and news.
“Not that I _shall_, though,” she added to herself, and she finished the
“Nearly three weeks.”
ladies went back into the house if there was a white frost which might
pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then,
“Yes--if Darcy does not put it off again. But I am at his disposal. He
histories of the first founders of the ancient republics. This book
prosperity. A fortunate chance had recommended him to Lady Catherine de
creator, abhor me; what hope can I gather from your fellow creatures,
nothing could be, psychologically speaking, a_ causa verior _for its
Elizabeth was spared from much teasing on the subject.
and terrific. I pressed on, but in vain. The wind arose; the sea roared;
The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was
other--about eight years ago.”
but he actually thought it necessary to turn back and walk with her. He
then, when you’ve cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way—”
as we went along Kitty and me drew up all the blinds, and pretended
Lord! what will become of me? I shall go distracted.”
be waived for the present, the lady felt no inclination to trifle with
Justine Moritz, I no longer see the world and its works as they before
driven back to the time when Mr. Bingley’s name had been last mentioned
“I never thought Mr. Darcy so deficient in the _appearance_ of it as you
by his bed, watching him; his eyes were closed, and I thought he slept; but
calling her attention. This observation would not have prevented her
“Miss Bennet would not play at all amiss if she practised more, and
piece with it, and therefore what I now tell you can give you no
*      *      *      *      *      *
made some acquaintances, who almost contrived to cheat me into
his parishioners whenever it were required.
accompanied the whale-fishers on several expeditions to the North Sea;
restrained but firm resolve not to be chained to the miserable details
disciple. It may appear strange that such should arise in the eighteenth
“How can you contrive to write so even?”
occasion for such a seclusion from the family, they did not attempt to
and affection of a sister. Elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed her
affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most
“But what,” said she, after a pause, “can have been his motive? what can
silence: at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and
did before him?”
was suddenly arrested by the paddling of oars near the shore, and a
Duchess was _very_ ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly the
were engaged in any high undertaking or design, fraught with extensive
family. They were then, with no other delay than his pointing out the
“The Dormouse is asleep again,” said the Hatter, and he poured a little
care of collecting witnesses and arranging my defence. I was spared
from its debasing and miserable fears to contemplate the divine ideas
presence-chamber of imperial Nature was broken only by the brawling
I trembled with excess of agitation as I said this; there was a frenzy
[Illustration]
loveliness of youth and health. Here, I thought, is one of those whose
Lucas should ever be mistress of this house, that _I_ should be forced
the former. My father is going to London with Colonel Forster instantly,
vulgarity of intellect and disposition working upon the common
The trial began, and after the advocate against her had stated the
every enticement that wealth placed in my path. Oh, that some encouraging
‘French, music, _and washing_—extra.’”
you often dance at St. James’s?”
Some weeks before this period I had procured a sledge and dogs and thus
“Lady Catherine,” said she, “you have given me a treasure”           200
“This is an evening of wonders, indeed! And so, Darcy did everything;
they spoke sometimes produced pleasure or pain, smiles or sadness, in the
ideas occupied my mind; all was confused. I felt light, and hunger,
during the night, to steal a part of their store for my own
compatible with the profession of a clergyman. I do not mean, however,
CHAPTER IX.
Miss Bingley’s attention was quite as much engaged in watching Mr.
that even her vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on his
with some degree of severity, and then, turning towards my conductors,
through her mother’s hands, Lydia’s expenses had been very little within
Now my desires were complied with, and it would, indeed, have been folly to
often exclaim in the bitterness of woe. “How can you be smiling so,
“I assure you, madam,” he replied, “that she does not need such advice.
equal to Netherfield. You will not think of quitting it in a hurry, I
“It was greatly my wish that he should do so,” he added, “as soon as his
however miserable, from the inclemency of the season, and still more
had received directions to open all that came for him in his absence,
“Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my
perfectly good. But how came you to tell us that he was so
have already reached a very high latitude; but it is the height of
share with Jane in the cares that must now fall wholly upon her, in a
gentlemen behind, on resuming their places, after descending to the
a cheap Don Juanish attractiveness or a disgusting rascality. But the
dining-room, their attention was suddenly drawn to the window by the
“And what am I to do on the occasion? It seems a hopeless business.”
the dress which I had taken from your laboratory. At first I had
It was very different when the masters of the science sought
hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of
One morning, soon after their arrival, as she was sitting with her two
grief that touched me to the heart. But he was silent and presently
sometimes a bright complexion, and was not very tall, we hear nothing
him to the living in question--of which he trusted there could be little
your regard during my stay in Hertfordshire. As for my fair cousins,
executed, whether you’re nervous or not.”
that friendship between a person capable of it and such an amiable man
persuaded to believe herself in love and to consent to an elopement. She
Englishman, and in the midst of national and professional prejudices,
night advanced, I placed a variety of combustibles around the cottage,
waited on and ministered to by the assemblance of grand shapes which I
what I have felt and still feel? Cold, want, and fatigue were the
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes,
feel on his behalf is natural and amiable. I cannot but wonder,
the circle of our acquaintance, whose name would have given the lie more
more certainly shine in the heavens than that which I now affirm is
way to consume me.
shake off all thought and feeling, but I learned that there was but one
cannot help blaming, her. She was very wrong in singling me out as
ourselves; vanity to what we would have others think of us.”
certain she could never bestow a favour unworthily. It was really a very
can’t prove I did: there’s no name signed at the end.”
reserved, and fastidious; and his manners, though well bred, were not
The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a
confusion, and unable to lift up her eyes. Had Miss Bingley known what
yourself; but I hope you will believe us grateful for the condescension,
the caprice of their inclinations. Had his own happiness, however, been
[Illustration:
criminal charge, that I was again allowed to breathe the fresh
this house the names of his cousin Miss De Bourgh, and of her mother,
interesting. Look also at the innumerable fish that are swimming in
obscure nook in the northern highlands of Scotland.
have endured poverty, and while this distress had been the meed of his
father began life in the profession which your uncle, Mr. Philips,
peaceful dreams. The horrible scene of the preceding day was for ever
campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor
looking at the Cat’s head with great curiosity.
be for one of them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go,
of usual cheerfulness, but with no further attempt to distinguish
in his pleasure.
agreeable and sensible young man without having a wish beyond it. I am
the works of my own hands at my bedside; its departure. Two years had
have been sincere, and his conduct cleared of all blame, unless any
not extract its food; but a circumstance that happened when I arrived
Meryton?”
The extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to lay to
Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the little
would be at Meryton again. And when you have given _your_ ball,” she
“I’m sure I’m not Ada,” she said, “for her hair goes in such long
mentioned; and while Mr. Darcy was attending them to their carriage,
“Come on, then!” roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession,
“It is a delightful thing, to be sure, to have a daughter well married,”
the same studies. Idleness had ever been irksome to me, and now that I
is it twelve? I—”
Like a tea-tray in the sky.
consented. As she went upstairs to get ready, Mrs. Bennet followed her,
a memorandum of the fact.
continued, with little intermission, to the very day of Lydia’s leaving
of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match. His being such
She had not been many hours at home, before she found that the Brighton
towards you I felt no sentiment but that of hatred. Unfeeling,
Mr. Darcy’s letter to Lady Catherine was in a different style, and still
certain conclusions as to the integrity of our motives. A sister or a
Mr. Collins’s triumph, in consequence of this invitation, was complete.
Waldman, whom I had never seen, as he had hitherto been out of town.
Wickham’s so amiable, as they had been considered in Hertfordshire. In
and Elizabeth, agitated and confused, rather _knew_ that she was happy
wandered with me on the banks of the lake and talked with ecstasy of our
enemy; we have yet to wrestle for our lives, but many hard and miserable
two sobs choked his voice. “Same as if he had a bone in his throat,”
reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected, she soon regained
their former conduct, that she would believe capable of such an attempt,
interrupted any two people in the room who had less to say for
We returned to our college on a Sunday afternoon: the peasants were
to the management of them all; told her how everything ought to be
commencement of an enterprise which you have regarded with such evil
forgotten sources; but, swelling as it proceeded, it became the torrent
express, my friend, that you expect to be informed of the secret with
“If any one of them can explain it,” said Alice, (she had grown so
passed before any of the family. A promise of secrecy was of course very
though Mrs. Bennet’s sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been
the housekeeper was favourable to his character; and as she stood before
affection had brought her into public at an early age. She had high
interfering; and Elizabeth, sometimes with real earnestness, and
extreme; and continually was she repeating, “Why is he so altered? From
Elizabeth longed to observe that Mr. Bingley had been a most delightful
the rain-dropping branches, and dank earth. I ate my breakfast with
perfectly idiotic!” And she opened the door and went in.
cottage was quickly enveloped by the flames, which clung to it and
handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground.
politeness, protested he must be entirely mistaken; and Lydia, always
“Now,” said she, “that this first meeting is over, I feel perfectly
a moment before she had believed her wishes to predominate, she began to
her better judgment, at my expense, when I confess myself to have
with others of the officers, at Longbourn; and so little was Elizabeth
So saying, he stepped aside and wrote down a list of several books
“It is amazing to me,” said Bingley, “how young ladies can have patience
always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself.
There was certainly at this moment, in Elizabeth’s mind, a more gentle
mystery of their reference. By great application, however, and after having
friend, but with kindness and affection for those who love you, and not
Besides, they observed that it appeared that I had brought the body
she made the most of the time by visiting about with her daughter, and
But the spiritless condition which this event threw her into was shortly
the substance of them to you.
again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to Wickham, and
could divide them. He was on one side of her mother. She knew how little
his safety, your surprise would have been boundless. His limbs were
The Mock Turtle’s Story
party. Mr. Bingley had danced with her twice, and she had been
are equally neglected.”
however strongly he may be attached, may, in spite of himself, be
“There isn’t any,” said the March Hare.
my opinion, far more agreeable than that of an English stagecoach. The
PREFACE.
and when, immediately before my father’s death, Mr. Darcy gave him a
sister-in-law was sure he would make her an offer before we came away.
backgammon. Mr. Bennet accepted the challenge, observing that he acted
under a ban—as if I had no right to claim their sympathies—as if
attached himself to Elizabeth for the pleasure of talking of her; and
him that event which was so often present to my recollection, but which
account for it.
myself to my most abhorred task. The prospect of such an occupation
where their dying voices are still said to be heard amid the pauses of the
determined to live, and I am satisfied.”
“I am sick of Mr. Bingley,” cried his wife.
“Do you suppose them to be in London?”
in his speech, with an eye so full of lofty design and heroism, that can
At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the parcels
justified in desiring the death of my adversary. During these last days I
feeling? This breeze, which has travelled from the regions towards
next to Jane in birth and beauty, succeeded her of course.
“A thorough, determined dislike of me--a dislike which I cannot but
necessary in Sir Lewis de Bourgh’s family. Do you play and sing, Miss
“Without once opening his lips”                                       24
console the unfortunate for their folly or their vice. He was fond of
the Duchess and the baby—the fire-irons came first; then followed a
“Read them,” said the King.
as Jane’s.”
revolved in my mind the events which I had until now sought to forget:
Rosings, and her not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to
cheered even me by the loveliness of its sunshine and the balminess of
feeling very glad that it was over at last: “and I do so like that
the blue lake and rapid Rhone, that had been so dear to me in early
but who, in one instance certainly, and perhaps in others, are still
exceedingly. As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know its
produce, found additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched
Alas! it was too late to wish that! She went on growing, and growing,
hamlet on the seashore. I inquired of the inhabitants concerning the
readily obeyed. Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece, desirous of knowing
the Gryphon added “Come, let’s hear some of _your_ adventures.”
arch I’ve got to go through next walking about at the other end of the
was obliged to be in town the following day, and consequently unable to
“Some time or other he _will_ be--but it shall not be by _me_. Till I
a recital of his misfortunes. I felt the greatest eagerness to hear
far as I thought myself privileged, for you. I shall send this by
every moment should be employed in conversing together. Jane should
for I deemed it criminal to throw away in useless grief those talents that
remaining in a country where women were allowed to take a rank in
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
her daughters put herself forward. The two girls had been whispering to
assured that we are all well. What I have to say relates to poor Lydia.
also by the oppressive sense of the injustice and ingratitude of their
“A man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant
ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
the various improvements made by different men of learning, pronouncing
approached my native town. I discovered more distinctly the black
the most melancholy reflections. I, who had ever been surrounded by
felt before; and he expressed himself on the occasion as sensibly and as
looked almost wild.”
she really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains.
The subject which had been so warmly canvassed between their parents,
course—‘_I gave her one, they gave him two_—’ why, that must be what he
around him; the springs of existence suddenly gave way; he was unable to
Duchess! Oh! won’t she be savage if I’ve kept her waiting!” Alice felt
too much truth. The word is applied to many a woman who deserves it no
“Well, I never heard it before,” said the Mock Turtle; “but it sounds
there was a motive within her of good-will which could not be
go the next day for a short time.
Saturday. The pain of separation, however, might be alleviated on his
those simple pleasures in which no alloy can possibly mix, then that
answered her hopes; but, alas! the ladies had crowded round the table,
where he had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go.
feeling in such a solitude can persuade me to preserve my life. If I
Bingley’s regard, and said all in her power to heighten her confidence
threat returned; nor can you wonder that, omnipotent as the fiend had
folly. Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect
as little trouble in the business as possible. When the first transports
“And then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my sisters
deserves.”
doubt of my reception. You showed me how insufficient were all my
Green, something was dropped by Denny expressing his belief that W.
anybody born in her decade--that of the eighteenth-century
your sister’s countenance and air was such as might have given the most
contempt, yet when he saw the lovely Safie, who was allowed to visit
“What did they live on?” said Alice, who always took a great interest
relieved, and her mind opened again to the agitation of hope, by an
listen to Sir William Lucas, when he complimented him on carrying away
fine,--with less of splendour, and more real elegance, than the
send; but even of _that_ they would have been glad to be certain. Mr.
article of news which then began to be in circulation. The housekeeper
struck with the size and furniture of the apartment, that he declared he
be under the greatest obligations to my father’s active superintendence;
to console and sympathise with my loved and sorrowing friends; but when I
The whole party were in hopes of a letter from Mr. Bennet the next
“What does Mr. Darcy mean,” said she to Charlotte, “by listening to my
nor esteem. Her heart did whisper that he had done it for her. But it
satisfy. After joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel
prevent the marriage, it occurred to Elizabeth that she must meditate an
her Ladyship’s asking us on Sunday to drink tea and spend the evening
“But I can assure you,” she added, “that Lizzy does not lose much by not
_This Swiftian quality appears in the present novel as it appears
have obtained my affections and hand, I shall soon cease to regret him
injurer, with increased swiftness, escaped into the wood.
confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste
“Except,” thought Elizabeth, “when she goes to Ramsgate.”
merchant’s house. The interval was, consequently, spent in inaction;
desired to plead, she collected her powers and spoke in an audible
Derbyshire, she might have supposed him capable of coming there with no
others have gone before you, and there is nothing more to know; but in
different feelings; wiping a few tears from her lovely eyes, she held
its willow islands and over the summits of its hills. I have dwelt many
prosperity and blasted the prospects of Mr. Wickham. Wilfully and
When they ascended the steps to the hall, Maria’s alarm was every moment
themselves. What a contrast between him and his friend! Mr. Darcy danced
“Yes, very different; but I think Mr. Darcy improves on acquaintance.”
got beyond the words “delightful,” and “charming,” when some unlucky
force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression. But then I
the family when her situation became known: she was aware that no one
colour and shape, and the eyelashes, so remarkably fine, might be
detained first by the civility of Mr. Collins, whose inquiries after
acquaintance.”
[Illustration]
The next morning, as she was going down stairs, she was met by her
“You may as well call it impertinence at once. It was very little less.
of the surrounding families, that he is considered as the rightful
horizon, the wind died away into a gentle breeze and the sea became
yet they flow with rapidity and unparalleled eloquence.
sometimes with playful gaiety, replied to her attacks. Though her manner
Lavenza and spend our first days of happiness beside the beautiful lake
assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an
Elizabeth had been the first to excite and to deserve his attention, the
net purses. I scarcely know any one who cannot do all this; and I am
talking to that one person (Lady Lucas) freely, openly, and of nothing
“That is all very proper and civil, I am sure,” said Mrs. Bennet, “and I
looking for eggs, I know _that_ well enough; and what does it matter to
not satisfy my own desires. They were for ever ardent and craving; still
made up on the subject; for, having received ordination at Easter,
in my power, that I was not so mean as to resent the past; and I hoped
Lizzy’s hair.”
“It is with considerable difficulty that I remember the original era of
“The volume of _Plutarch’s Lives_ which I possessed contained the
My conscience told me that I deserved no extraordinary politeness, and I
marked their several meetings in Derbyshire; and as she threw a
your countenance and to find that your heart is not totally void of
was not comfortable; that was impossible; but she was flattered and
for her, he chose to elope with her at all, had she not felt certain
hurried nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went
prevents the blood from actually freezing in your veins. I have no
complained bitterly of all this to her husband.
some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and
“Now I am quite happy,” said she, “for you will be as happy as myself. I
succeeded to the tumult I had before endured, and I threw myself on the
“But that expression of ‘violently in love’ is so hackneyed, so
is nothing the matter with me. I am quite well, I am only distressed by
Good night, my sister.
thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon afterwards appeared
having traversed immense seas, and returned by the most southern cape of
it would have been nothing; but _his_ perfect indifference and _your_
character, could be capable of it. Can his most intimate friends be so
very fluently, gave him to understand that her sentiments had undergone
myself about you: you must manage the best way you can;—but I must be
dreadful suspicion of his being purposely omitted, for Mr. Darcy’s
never to stir out of doors, till you can prove that you have spent ten
told you last night. But I was not then master enough of myself to know
sweetness of temper exactly adapted her for attending to them in every
myself in the bonds of the closest friendship to one among them. Henry
know how long. His regiment is there; for I suppose you have heard of
who would spend each vital drop of blood for your sakes, who has no
eyes were directed, with a very serious expression, towards Bingley and
first object. When I am in company with him, I will not be wishing. In
CHAPTER XI.
hour after everybody else was gone, which gave them time to see how
Tuesday could have made such a Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday
consulted their village priest, and the result was that Elizabeth Lavenza
the habitation, I quitted the scene and sought for refuge in the woods.
far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies in general. I
fellow?”
thus about an hour, the young woman joined him and they entered the
death and will indulge a hope of meeting you in another world.”
speech to a person just saved, on the very edge of death; but I felt
de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need not say you will
love and happiness which would alone restore you to yourself. I, who
heard somehow that Mrs. Long does not keep a carriage, and had to come
observed this; rage and hatred had at first deprived me of utterance,
reflect on the best means of securing him; and for this purpose, about
She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite
do we?”
nor the code of governments, nor the politics of various states
“A note for Miss Bennet”
that betrayed him to be unprincipled or unjust--anything that spoke him
accidents which experienced navigators scarcely remember to record, and
At present I will say nothing about it.”
could not conceal his apprehension of Lady Catherine’s being rather
Lydia was bid by her two eldest sisters to hold her tongue; but Mr.
extinguish that life which I had so thoughtlessly bestowed. When I
“I can tell you more than that, if you like,” said the Gryphon. “Do you
unhappy and still avoid our society. For some time I was lost in
man.
Miller’s regiment went away. I thought I should have broke my heart.”
lost.
Ladyship, its effect had been exactly contrariwise.
her attendance, and the day after the next was fixed on.
all that affection which a man feels, who in the decline of life, having
of matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am convinced it will add
however temporary its existence might prove, had at least outlived one
upstairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly after her. She opened
glancing over it, said, in a colder voice,--
uncomfortable for the Dormouse,” thought Alice; “only, as it’s asleep,
serves only to plunge me lower in the dust. All my speculations and hopes
benefited by marriage. But he found, in reply to this question,
incredible labour and fatigue, I succeeded in discovering the cause of
Jane and Elizabeth looked at each other, and the waiter was told that he
injustice that I read in books or heard from others as tales of ancient
“What a charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. Darcy! There is
The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a low voice,
which modern inquirers have written on these subjects. I attended the
very curious to see what the next witness would be like, “—for they
“Only think of its being three months,” she cried, “since I went away:
“Of course you don’t!” the Hatter said, tossing his head
advantage. She was not near enough to hear any of their discourse; but
all compassion in anger. She tried, however, to compose herself to
in all probability, from the influence of their brother’s admiration. It
had actually been hinted that Colonel Forster was going to be married.
‘Up above the world you fly,
do.”
“But it is not merely this affair,” she continued, “on which my dislike
“You need not be frightened. I never heard any harm of her; and I dare
Elizabeth, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with great
being at home again in a day or two. Jane was already so much recovered
“but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I
“Dear ma’am, do not go. I beg you will not go. Mr. Collins must excuse
my other sufferings. I looked on the heavens, which were covered by clouds
“_That_ is a failing, indeed!” cried Elizabeth. “Implacable resentment
“I find myself very unwell this morning, which, I suppose, is to be
“Good heaven! can it be really so? Yet now I must believe you,” cried
feelings which can arm one being against the existence of another.
to matrimony, in a moment. I knew you would be wishing me joy.”
Excellent friend! how sincerely you did love me, and endeavour to
esteemed and valued;--that even Wickham had allowed him merit as a
‘monster! Ugly wretch! You wish to eat me and tear me to pieces. You
“I think she will. She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet’s height, or
Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Bingley to keep his
concerns, as I often see done.”
the first favourable opportunity of speaking to her alone: after
it is that prejudice which I wish to overcome.’
“Oh, as to the whiting,” said the Mock Turtle, “they—you’ve seen them,
In the afternoon, the two elder Miss Bennets were able to be for half an
returning; and then we discovered that William and Ernest, who had gone
“Good heavens!” cried Elizabeth; “but how could _that_ be? How could his
you an offer of marriage. Is it true?”
is to spend an evening in this way! I declare, after all, there is no
and delicate complexions; but how was I terrified when I viewed myself
Day after day, week after week, passed away on my return to Geneva; and
“I shall be very fit to see Jane--which is all I want.”
through every walk and cross walk, and scarcely allowing them an
morning, “if that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with
Society has claims on us all; and I profess myself one of those who
welcome relief to him at Rosings; and Mrs. Collins’s pretty friend had,
aloof while he was talking to their niece, who, astonished and confused,
“To begin with,” said the Cat, “a dog’s not mad. You grant that?”
attached to its success inspired me with a dread lest I should fail.
She had no fear of its spreading farther, through his means. There were
Scotland who had formerly been our visitor at Geneva. He mentioned the
“What _is_ the use of repeating all that stuff,” the Mock Turtle
happiness! But it was not to be. Did you ever hear Darcy mention the
guessed. I wish I could say, for the sake of her family, that the
benumbed by want and squalid poverty. As it was, I lived ungazed at
family in France, where he had lived for many years in affluence,
his tale. I was partly urged by curiosity, and compassion confirmed my
Mr. Darcy stood near them in silent indignation at such a mode of
cultivation. The birds sang in more cheerful notes, and the leaves
“Both,” replied Elizabeth archly; “for I have always seen a great
“—and just take his head off outside,” the Queen added to one of the
returned. He, however, answered mildly, “I would willingly afford you
“They have none of them much to recommend them,” replied he: “they are
admittance to the prison, he found a strongly grated window in an
if--but, however, it may all come to nothing, you know.”
came. Some hours passed thus, while they, by their countenances,
demeanour and conciliating words, I should first win their favour and
Rosings, and whenever he came to Hunsford; but without much success. He
feelings of others, were such as to form that groundwork of
and holding it to his ear.
me; I should not have been allowed to invite them.”
“But you forget, mamma,” said Elizabeth, “that we shall meet him at the
all the players, except the King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody
“Are you quite sure, ma’am? Is not there a little mistake?” said Jane.
forbearance and command of countenance particularly grateful to the
“to assure you in the most animated language”
pursue the murderer of my peace and precipitate him into the ocean. I
this thought, which supported me in the commencement of my career, now
are to be the happiest couple in the world. But are you pleased, Jane?
of her sister’s ready acquiescence.
slipped in like herself.
of irreligious or immoral habits;--that among his own connections he was
Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne
this horrid apparition, informed me of his path; sometimes he himself,
to think ill of a young man who has lived so long in Derbyshire.”
of exquisite verdure, is spread forth into a placid expanse of waters,
took place.
going away myself.”
century; but while I followed the routine of education in the schools of
them were likely to be married, whether they were handsome, where they
situation, yet my courage and hopes do not desert me. Yet it is
seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by
“I won’t!” said Alice.
from their apprehension of Charlotte’s dying an old maid. Charlotte
has very much at heart.”
my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong
friend from what I esteemed a most unhappy connection. He left
“Yes; where else can they be so well concealed?”
the dispositions of these amiable cottagers. In the midst of poverty
Mr. Collins had only to change from Jane to Elizabeth--and it was soon
“Then the Dormouse shall!” they both cried. “Wake up, Dormouse!” And
“They have both,” said she, “been deceived, I dare say, in some way or
had acquired at the cottage; they consisted of _Paradise Lost_, a volume
relationship to herself, she stole a sly look at him, to see how he bore
regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster? His temptation is
will pass before you and I may meet. If I fail, you will see me again soon,
right to be asked as she has, and more too, for I am two years older.”
In spite of what her sister declared, and really believed to be her
to life. It appeared to be a handsome young man, about five and twenty
Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in
has done.”
Heading to Chapter XXXI.                                             215
Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all
masculine. But the likeness of quality consists in a great number of
generality of female minds. But I confess they would have no charms for
colour, “I will not mention it if it agitates you; but your father
CONTENTS
joke.”
“‘They are kind—they are the most excellent creatures in the world;
his affection was not the work of a day, but had stood the test of many
before my eyes, which I flung from me with violence; “thus I take from
“You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine,
generally known, because if it were to get round to the lady’s family it
and destroyed. She was no longer that happy creature who in earlier youth
but to the very relations whom he had openly disdained, and recollected
speech.
satisfy his eager mind. The scenery of external nature, which others regard
countenance, agreed with my father that if my cousin would consent, the
“I hope not so. Imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters would be
Letter 2
(“I only wish it was,” the March Hare said to itself in a whisper.)
her commendation, though costing her some trouble, could by no means
to repine.”
Miss Bingley’s congratulations to her brother on his approaching
my seeing Mr. Jones--therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear
and its tremendous _dôme_ overlooked the valley.
that it has not been more than an error of fancy on my side, and that it
even to Charlotte’s wishes, to be the case; and, after various
tail. “As if _I_ would talk on such a subject! Our family always
hardly a good feature in her face, than he began to find it was rendered
“Tell me, once for all, are you engaged to him?”
“‘Heaven forbid! Even if you were really criminal, for that can only
not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.
last so steady, that in his will he particularly recommended it to me to
affections, think you that any can replace those who are gone? Can any
till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.
all that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire--and, give me
enjoyment was certain--that of suitableness as companions; a
means to overcome the sensation of pain, and that was death—a state
“_Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle_—” and went on so long that they
purpose. I hoped to induce you to grant me a boat with which I could pursue
day’s experience that I was unwilling to commence this undertaking
Justine, and it was with great difficulty that Elizabeth could tear
further consideration that, in spite of your manifold attractions, it is
supernatural force tore me from his father, to whose knees I clung, in
work such a change as this. It is impossible that he should still love
addition to the family at Rosings, which in so small a circle must be
only one which man does not grudge. These bleak skies I hail, for they
full of brotherly love and charity. Rely, therefore, on your hopes;
“A cheap sort of present!” thought Alice. “I’m glad they don’t give
allowed me to be calculating and calm at periods when otherwise
useless; for, of course, they were to have a son. This son was to join
disappointment. He might remain in Switzerland and wreak his vengeance
their plan, and would not give his real opinion about it. He did not
allow, and if he took orders, desired that a valuable family living
much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of “Lord,
grievous then was the thought that, of a situation so desirable in every
manner, which would have injured a higher degree of excellence than she
greater became my desire to claim their protection and kindness; my
The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her for a
I started from my sleep with horror; a cold dew covered my forehead, my
hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies of Rosings.
get out again.
full of tears, but said nothing.
things—” when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching
“Who is Mr. Kirwin? Why am I to give an account of myself? Is not
airing would do me a great deal of good, I am sure. Girls, can I do
for words of four syllables. Do not you, Darcy?”
not tell.
drivest from joy for no misdeed. Everywhere I see bliss, from which I
very likely have taken Crawford if he had been a little more assiduous;
“I did not know that you intended to walk,” said Miss Bingley, in some
She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house of
in the world of Elizabeth; though at first she often listened with an
everybody away from him and her daughter. Elizabeth, who had a letter to
not hear of my returning home till I am better. They insist also on
my bosom; every sound terrified me, but I resolved that I would sell my
The agitation and tears which the subject occasioned brought on a
memory of his father.”
“I mention it because it is the living which I ought to have had. A most
“I am afraid you have been long desiring my absence, nor have I anything
of swimming about here, O Mouse!” (Alice thought this must be the right
my conversation had interested the father in my behalf, and I was a
offering his assistance as far as it would go. But he found Lydia
distinguish, nothing; but feeling pain invade me on all sides, I sat
it is Charlotte Lucas. You shall not, for the sake of one individual,
Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation.
in the world she was to get out again.
Mrs. Gardiner then rallied her niece on Wickham’s desertion, and
mist came over my eyes, which obliged me to lean on a chair for
of his infamous behaviour to Mr. Darcy; and you, yourself, when last at
death. Yet he enjoys one comfort, the offspring of solitude and
parted.
of rank; and were, therefore, in every respect entitled to think well of
pleasure realized. A scheme of which every part promises delight can
can be hushed, never more to be heard. These are the reflections of
“After some weeks my wound healed, and I continued my journey. The
when we _do_ return, it shall not be like other travellers, without
eyes, and my skin was parched with the heat of fever. In this state I
I spent the following day roaming through the valley. I stood beside
forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly
Elizabeth was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last time. Having been
as she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I
now!” The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible
likely it can talk: at any rate, there’s no harm in trying.” So she
certainly looked at her friend a great deal, but the expression of that
place since I awoke into life. My attention at this time was solely
told the servants not to disturb the family, and went into the library
On such encouragement to ask, Elizabeth was forced to put it out of her
His character was decided. He was the proudest, most disagreeable man in
And turns no more his head;
labour for the night or hasten its conclusion by an unremitting attention
impatiently met her at the door of her dressing-room, to ask why Lady
favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second or even a
complete indeed. This, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in
]
attachment with which all regarded her became, while I shared it, my
CHAPTER LV.
separately, sometimes together, and now and then accompanied by their
deathbed the fortitude and benignity of this best of women did not desert
dream, dear, certainly: but now run in to your tea; it’s getting late.”
uncle and aunt, leaving her to enjoy them in quiet, set off by
a large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between
miserable fiend, to torture and death. Never will I give up my search
contrary, he was all attention to everybody. By nature inoffensive,
could.”
the present distance.”
immediately before me. These causes must be stated, though briefly. The
but I hope this may be false.”
were my father, my creator; and to whom could I apply with more fitness
conjectured, by his longer voyage, he entreated me to bestow as much of
ministers of vengeance, to aid and conduct me in my work. Let the cursed
They retired and I turned towards my friend, but he was sunk in languor and
meet tolerably often, it is never for many hours together; and as they
[Illustration]
but I don’t remember where.”
wish of procuring her regard, which she had assured herself of his
be her husband might then have rested in its proper place.
before. His debts to be discharged, and something still to remain! Oh,
construction; and that his character was by no means so faulty, nor
conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man: you know he is, as well as
your poor cousin. Yet that is over now: Clerval writes that indeed
Jane’s steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable
the appearances of the sky. “This is what it is to live,” he cried;
he hastened to Paris and delivered himself up to the vengeance of the
Miss Bennet paused a little, and then replied, “Surely there can be no
rather louder than any other person’s, was enumerating the various
since you went away. Have you seen any pleasant men? Have you had any
overlooked, had not your pride been hurt by my honest confession of the
Gardiner’s behaviour laid them all under.
pleasure; but Elizabeth still saw superciliousness in their treatment of
most disagreeable. Such were the gentle murmurs of Mrs. Bennet, and they
The murderous mark of the fiend’s grasp was on her neck, and the
“There’s no such thing!” Alice was beginning very angrily, but the
Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought
behaviour to herself, moreover, she had a fresh source of displeasure;
half-past one as long as you liked.”
forward, may arrive earlier than she is aware, and that the delightful
and you will then have a companion to aid you in the task of destruction.
the two years that had elapsed previous to their marriage my father had
unassuming and gentle. Elizabeth, who had expected to find in her as
“All right, so far,” said the King, and he went on muttering over the
winter is over.”
When the ladies were separating for the toilette, he said to
least, if there are, nobody attends to them—and you’ve no idea how
are such, that I cannot help earnestly begging you all to come here as
them at Pemberley, in spite of that pollution which its woods had
friend would not call herself _near_ her family under less than _half_
endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome; I was not even
presents to one’s own feet! And how odd the directions will look!
me by every opportunity: I may receive your letters on some occasions when
and sadly:—
Away ran the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech. They
I was at first touched by the expressions of his misery; yet, when I called
Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a
can be no occasion for your going so soon. Mrs. Bennet could certainly
protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman?
him more favourably spoken of by anyone.”
successfully combated by the more natural influence of Jane’s
To Elizabeth it appeared, that had her family made an agreement to
intruding on Miss Bennet, and, after sitting a few minutes longer,
“Take care, Lizzy; that speech savours strongly of disappointment.”
wish of forwarding the match with Miss de Bourgh, which I am certain he
the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who were all talking at once,
doubt; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was
simpleton, and allow her fancy for Wickham to make her appear unpleasant
that Mr. Jones should be sent for early in the morning, if Miss Bennet
came different!” Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.
him to accompany me and to become my fellow student, but in vain. His
decease of the incumbent of the living which had been designed for him,
“And do you impute it to either of those?”
“Oh, well! it is just as he chooses. Nobody wants him to come; though I
I was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep your
he talked. I conjectured, therefore, that he found on the paper signs
words will only exasperate my rage.”
him after breakfast, and there he would continue, nominally engaged with
In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your
philosophy. Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you
before; and she asked Bingley whether he meant to make any stay in the
anxiously round to see if he would deny it too: but the Dormouse denied
this. And it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to
only that I was enabled to gain the rest necessary for the preservation of
The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then
no use their putting their heads down and saying ‘Come up again, dear!’
with believing that _she_ would have been his only choice, had fortune
Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so
happiness. Some years ago, when the images which this world affords first
and soon the bolt will fall which must ravish from you your happiness for
high, and I bounded along with feelings of unbridled joy and hilarity.
that far exceeded moderation; but now that I had finished, the beauty
expressing his hope that it would now be rewarded by her acceptance of
astonished her husband and daughters.
you cannot deny the fact.”
what he ever was.”
arranges the business just as he pleases.”
to him, unless it was in her power to offer him any attention, or mark
too full of lines under the words to be made public.
Mrs. Bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married; and she
destruction of the best hope and the purest creature on earth? She was
humour, were so far beyond reason, that she was quite disappointed at
nurse than himself; and, firm in the hope he felt of my recovery, he
in such awe of her intended son-in-law, that she ventured not to speak
impertinence. Your uncle is as much surprised as I am; and nothing
enough to say before) how much I like him? His behaviour to us has,
parted on each side with the utmost politeness. Mr. Darcy handed the
paid she had no knowledge of it. It was then disclosed in the following
weather obliged us to remain a day confined to the inn. In this house I
began to like them herself, when she saw how much affection and
sisters. In spite of this amendment, however, she requested to have a
“Abhorred monster! Fiend that thou art! The tortures of hell are too
Meanwhile Clerval occupied himself, so to speak, with the moral
wait till Jane was well; and by that time, most likely, Captain Carter
interested you, because I was so unlike _them_. Had you not been really
warm joy to my heart, and tears gushed from my eyes.
animal, I could not rank myself with the herd of common projectors. But
her two elder sisters. In society so superior to what she had generally
dancing, and every one we met appeared gay and happy. My own spirits were
music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to. The
unwilling to quit the sight of those that remained to me, and above
accomplished girl in the neighbourhood; and Catherine and Lydia had been
A long dispute followed this declaration; but Mr. Bennet was firm: it
“Yes, very well. I saw them the night before last.”
serene conscience and guiltless life to inspire me with fortitude and
loved her, but for loving her still well enough to forgive all the
favourite schoolfellow, Louis Manoir, has suffered several misfortunes
“any shrimp could have told you that.”
in either, except that the loss of her favourite sister, or the anger
probability of a rainy season, made her feel that the commonest,
by any of us.”
was forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did? We
piling up strokes in the hope of giving a complete impression. You get
accepting it. Is it not so, Mrs. Bennet?”
“I know that the sympathy of a stranger can be but of little relief to
be only the apparently innocent one of distinguishing yourself in
professor, would lecture upon chemistry the alternate days that he
confirmed the suspicion in a great measure by her extreme confusion of
“E. GARDINER.”
delightful persuasion that, allowing for the necessary preparations of
questions, but answered them very composedly. Lady Catherine then
as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?”
“I don’t think they play at all fairly,” Alice began, in rather a
I broke from the house angry and disturbed and retired to meditate on
September 5th.
effort, he sank into silence. About half an hour afterwards he
therefore, abruptly changing the conversation, talked on indifferent
affairs of his country; a variety of circumstances had prevented his
too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity which Bingley’s
himself with coolly replying, that he perceived no other alteration than
“Are they, indeed?” cried Elizabeth, with the greatest satisfaction.
good Justine, is innocent.”
eyes will ever behold. Farewell, Frankenstein! If thou wert yet alive
cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we would have
and rejoiced in his domestic comforts. She was not sorry, however, to
without knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to
impatient to arrive at the termination of my journey.
He began to wish to know more of her; and, as a step towards conversing
the others all joined in chorus, “Yes, please do!” but the Mouse only
wantonly. Did the murderer place it there? I know of no opportunity
friend repair the faults of your poor brother! I am too ardent in execution
a deal too flustered to tell you—all I know is, something comes at me
feelings when sunk in torpor. She wept with me and for me. When reason
were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was
itself to my imagination, the remembrance of which I preserved in my
are naturally lively enough. And we all know that Wickham has every
[Illustration:
to mind what Frankenstein had said of his powers of eloquence and
for money; and how Lydia could ever have attached him had appeared
recollection.
Bingley of coming again to Netherfield must give way.
account and my niece’s. It is Mr. Wickham’s intention to go into the
What had been the study and desire of the wisest men since the creation
which I am acquainted; that cannot be; listen patiently until the end
hope that they would not continue long. Mrs. Gardiner gave her the
you can, bring her to Hunsford, and I will visit her.’ Allow me, by the
happiness. The delight of Clerval was proportionably greater than
near the house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high.
fool’s paradise, who has knowledge of nature and the world and life, is
any care or bitter recollection. I often refused to accompany him,
It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking
“You are old,” said the youth, “as I mentioned before,
“When I am in the country,” he replied, “I never wish to leave it; and
precipitate closure with this gentleman’s proposals, which, of course,
All that he said threw greatly into the shade Cornelius Agrippa,
“Do you think, Victor,” said he, “that I do not suffer
“I am not.”
fixed for the latter end of autumn; but being delayed by several
very much surprised, so lately as Mr. Collins was wishing to marry you.
or two, and before she could reply to the entreaties of several that she
actions been what Wickham represented them, so gross a violation of
several minutes, was only recalled to a sense of her situation by the
other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head
“If you didn’t sign it,” said the King, “that only makes the matter
him! For herself she was humbled; but she was proud of him,--proud that
late in the evening, when she had the comfort of seeing her asleep, and
again!”
And, taking her hand, he would have given it to Mr. Darcy, who, though
she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly spread out her
apprehended by different persons. To me this humour seems to possess a
himself without disguise.”
“I was surprised to see Darcy in town last month. We passed each other
appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in
“What sort of a girl is Miss Darcy?”
enough not to despise me as romantic, and affection enough for me to
With an air of indifference, he soon afterwards added, “How long did you
delicate for pit and gallery. But if the attempt were made, it would
will see a finer, larger picture of him than this. This room was my late
imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances, and, at
plentiful supply of fire. When night came on and brought sleep with
“You may well be surprised, Miss Bennet, at such an assertion, after
Wickham’s attentions. There could be no conversation in the noise of
first opportunity of saying, with sneering civility,--
good-natured wishes for her well-doing, which had proceeded before from
yourself, or endeavour to involve him, in an affection which the want of
delicacy and keeping. The catastrophe of_ Mansfield Park _is admittedly
done more tranquilly, might not be the less decisive. Fear overcame me; I
[Illustration: “Walked back with them”
the gaieties which that season generally brings, and that your beaux
danger security for happiness.”
the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home.”
and you will find me as good as my word. I have no pleasure in talking
her anxiety had done no good. Others of the party were now applied to.
pursuit had cramped and narrowed me, until your gentleness and
PREJUDICE
talked incessantly of lottery tickets, of the fish she had lost and the
Bourgh, Jane, Wickham, and the rest, must pass without special comment,
ill-natured boy.
Alice, she went on, “What’s your name, child?”
more easily satisfied. In this emigration I exceedingly lamented the
Wickham’s absence than if her first surmise had been just, every feeling
rained hard. Her sisters were uneasy for her, but her mother was
returned to my old habits. I collected bones from charnel-houses and
colour.
would. This event had at last been despaired of, but it was then too
imperfect, yet when I considered the improvement which every day takes
former residence, and where she had lately learned that some
opposite banks, we saw the mighty Jura opposing its dark side to the
“Come, Darcy,” said he, “I must have you dance. I hate to see you
strongly. Perhaps during former years he had suffered from the
CHAPTER VII.
unlike to the beings concerning whom I read and to whose conversation I
just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers
writing, because you consider them as proceeding from a rapidity of
like that!”
her daughter, and Mrs. Jenkinson were sitting. Her Ladyship, with great
mankind, to the last generation, by discovering a passage near the pole
result from the success of his endeavours, and when even the
into the drawing-room.
good nature that banished every idea of pedantry. In a thousand ways
After the first fortnight or three weeks of her absence, health,
or sense. I have met with two instances lately: one I will not mention,
first you, my tyrant and tormentor, shall curse the sun that gazes on your
“Yes; it has often led him to be liberal and generous; to give his money
the other is Charlotte’s marriage. It is unaccountable! in every view it
Elizabeth was distressed. She felt that she had no business at
utter and stupid despair. My protectors had departed and had broken
voice of her companion, who, in a manner which, though it spoke
feminine attentions on her playmate and friend.
reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: ‘Had you behaved in a
“Come on, then,” said the Queen, “and he shall tell you his history.”
the apparition of a spirit. Darkness had no effect upon my fancy, and
behind the stupendous mountains of Jura.
would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his returning to
look at Netherfield House. He did look at it, and into it, for half an
wife, was exactly what he had wished for; and that an opportunity of
in the gallery at Pemberley. Put them next to your great-uncle the
sure I never heard a young lady spoken of for the first time, without
her hope of seeing him in the course of the day, as he was going the
misery. Urged by this view, I refused, and I did right in refusing, to
she slept for a few minutes; some steps disturbed her, and she awoke.
to London. I was right, therefore; my last letter had never reached her.
“I have received a letter this morning that has astonished me
appeared at the door, and the carriage stopped at the small gate, which
[Illustration]
my fur and whiskers! She’ll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are
delight. Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will consecrate
the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go.
trouble of finding a subject to him.
she first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power;
last; and her expectations of advantage to her family, when in a happy
“I have not an instant to lose”                                      339
heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as
a father and mother, and such low connections, I am afraid there is no
existence and events from which I am now excluded.”
Henry rejoiced in my gaiety, and sincerely sympathised in my feelings: he
dispersed the clouds that had loitered in the heavens; the blast tore
When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked
my father had taken of my volume by no means assured me that he was
her _younger_ daughters, she could not take upon her to say--she could
acquire and transmit over the elemental foes of our race. As I spoke, a
He listened to her with perfect indifference, while she chose to
girls in his life; everybody had been most kind and attentive to him;
see of the world, must make Hunsford extremely dull to a young lady like
took my passage in the same ship, but he escaped, I know not how.
Jane looked at her doubtingly. “Oh, Lizzy! it cannot be. I know how much
Felix, in reading it, given very minute explanations. He had chosen this
Jane, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness
Elizabeth. I remained silent.
one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the other
All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter, and,
nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn.
a bit.”
very queer indeed:—
more pain than the benevolent approbation of M. Waldman. “D—n
before, but no one with such justice. I am happier even than Jane; she
“When I wrote that letter,” replied Darcy, “I believed myself perfectly
on my return I met the salutations of my friends with a readier smile
bestow; and she felt capable, under such circumstances, of endeavouring
speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings,
him.”
own easy manners recommended her, had increased into assurance. She was
“I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!” said Alice aloud,
then a resistless and almost frantic impulse urged me forward; I seemed
join with my enemies to crush me, to condemn me as a murderer?” Her
“You will laugh when you know where I am gone, and I cannot help
tone. “The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and the
distinguished by his sisters. Jane was as much gratified by this as her
an agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and not
he put his letter into her hand! She knew not what to think, or how to
contradictory theories and floundering desperately in a very slough of
“There’s a porpoise close behind us, and he’s treading on my tail.
so cordial. His countenance rather gained in austerity; and he scarcely
impatient to see his sister; and to confess the truth, _we_ are scarcely
“My uncle is to send a servant for us.”
Elizabeth told her the motives of her secrecy. She had been unwilling to
and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, _do_ divert me, I own, and I
ay,” continued he, observing my face expressive of suffering,
large as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it.
and a more cheerful heart.
not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins, she could not help asking
invent something!”
Elizabeth listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for more. Mrs.
Miss Bennet had not been able to hear of his coming without changing
“No; it would have been strange if they had. But I make no doubt they
strange coincidences that had taken place during this eventful night; but,
“But there seems indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her so
thousand a year, which, unfortunately for his daughters, was entailed,
You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the
delighting both him and herself. On being made acquainted with the
with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) “—it was at the great concert
missing him; she really rejoiced at it. Colonel Fitzwilliam was no
“But not before they went to Brighton?”
congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of
up with her; but, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody
invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as often as he
but, unfortunately, they are prejudiced against me. I have good
falsehood, he has imposed on you; but his success is not perhaps to be
my father’s smile of benevolent pleasure while regarding me are my
town, but his debts of honour were still more formidable. Mr. Gardiner
Will you smile at the enthusiasm I express concerning this divine
“There’s certainly too much pepper in that soup!” Alice said to
all sides various scents saluted me; the only object that I could
its beauty compensated for its dilatoriness.
tittered audibly.
to the scheme.
seek. Do not you desert me in the hour of trial!’
have been gladly and gratefully received! He was as generous, she
muscles and joints were rendered capable of motion, it became a thing
earnestly. But however this remonstrance might have staggered or delayed
cannot refuse to dance, I am sure, when so much beauty is before you.”
thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and
overhanging sides of Mont Salêve? These reflections determined me, and
the difficulty of finding anything to do, which was the more probable
blush. He absolutely started, and for a moment seemed immovable from
short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely, “I
and satisfy my vengeance in his death. And do I dare to ask of you to
seven gentlemen with him to the assembly. The girls grieved over such a
her joy burst forth, and every following sentence added to its
which M. Krempe had given me concerning the lectures. And although I
comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume
Lucas has been very kind: she walked here on Wednesday morning to
were very intimately acquainted with the family of De Bourgh.
unworthy of my condescension. Remember that I have power; you believe
I refrained. I saw him on the point of repeating his blow, when,
and in spite of his being a lover, Elizabeth really believed all his
The whole village was roused; some fled, some attacked me, until,
that years of happiness could not make Jane or herself amends for
she be as tall as I am?”
again, sitting on a branch of a tree.
reader) was in its first shape written very early, somewhere about 1796,
marry; and in seeking a reconciliation with the Longbourn family he had
appearance was disconsolate, and I found my feet chilled by the cold
good spirits. Mrs. Bennet invited him to dine with them; but, with many
of it. Oh, _that_ abominable Mr. Darcy! My father’s opinion of me does
think of what work it would make with the day and night! You see the
hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the
as I proceeded in my labour, it became every day more horrible and
otherwise sometimes found in indulging the excess of grief.
Justine’s innocence. “Alas!” said she. “How shall I
that corps. Not a syllable had ever reached her of Miss Darcy’s
departure. But he had promised to follow me wherever I might go, and
[Illustration: 1894]
all after him so soon; for, if I recollect right, he went but the day
“It seems likely to have been a desirable match for Jane,” said she. “I
In another minute Mr. Bingley, but without seeming to have noticed what
Mr. Bingley and Jane remained at Netherfield only a twelvemonth. So near
the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture still to think of
officers’ names and connections. Their lodgings were not long a secret,
friendship. You have hope, and the world before you, and have no cause for
[Illustration:
inferior to what Elizabeth felt.
But before they heard again from Mr. Gardiner, a letter arrived for
narration concerning my studies and smiled at the names of Cornelius
are not your last tears! Again shall you raise the funeral wail, and
them, would never exert himself to restrain the wild giddiness of his
_myself_, but I dread other people’s remarks.”
Elizabeth’s arm inadequate to her support, and consequently preferred
Charlotte, and the kind attention she had received, must make _her_ feel
intention of marriage, she had no difficulty in believing that neither
for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people.
To Catherine and Lydia neither the letter nor its writer were in any
was surprised, however, that Wickham should consent to such a scheme;
Heading to Chapter XXII.                                             154
He sent them word I had not gone
very equal, therefore, to address Mr. Bingley on the subject of the
misfortunes have been great indeed.”
on this account, as well as some others, found herself, when their
image and that inconstant shade.
must be dreadful.”
CHAPTER LII.
complacency, when thus accosted by Miss Bingley,--
The Lobster Quadrille
It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the
which he would have thought necessary.
Heading to Chapter XX.                                               139
keep him to herself, and to those of her family with whom he might
for it. She was received, however, very politely by them; and in their
could form such a design against a young woman of Lydia’s connections,
“True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room. Well, Colonel
presented to your eyes was the body of your friend, murdered in so
leave my friends unconscious of the existence of their enemy and
All the minor passages--the loves of Jane and Bingley, the advent of Mr.
and, luckily for the others, the business of love-making relieved them
not think it unreasonable for him to expect some more immediate
you, dear Lizzy, not to pain me by thinking _that person_ to blame, and
reception at Longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been on his
him, with some asperity, that they were very well able to keep a good
had placed carefully, one by one, in my view those instruments which
and misery and often reflected I had better seek death than desire to
understand.”
‘I’ll be judge, I’ll be jury,’ Said cunning old Fury: ‘I’ll
sight of her, and in about a quarter of an hour she returned bearing
“But if a woman is partial to a man, and does not endeavor to conceal
she inspires in Louisa and myself is heightened into something still
me an insight into the manners, governments, and religions of the different
freely in my veins, but a weight of despair and remorse pressed on my
“Your hair wants cutting,” said the Hatter. He had been looking at
repaid my labours. Their melancholy is soothing, and their joy
anything about it, they found at last, on examining their watches, that
noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant
“But upon my honour I do _not_. I do assure you that my intimacy has not
instantly darted into my mind that the murderer had come to mock at my
]
Meryton. And so, my dear sister, I find, from our uncle and aunt, that
of my disturbed imagination, but the pertinacity with which I
and often did my human nature turn with loathing from my occupation,
morning. They were, therefore, to go. Elizabeth was pleased; though when
“Protested he must be entirely mistaken.”
against you, had they been indifferent, or had they even been
the false realism of our own day look merely dead-alive. Take almost any
was it an honourable undertaking. You were hereafter to be hailed as the
This letter revived in my memory what I had before forgotten, the threat of
“And your hair has become very white;
likewise turned towards Mr. Darcy, with an expression of half-laughing
discovery! Yet, how just a humiliation! Had I been in love, I could not
curious song about the whiting!”
soldiers, who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so
_was_ coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, before he had
felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.
with all the room; and as to Miss Bennet, he could not conceive an angel
and regular instruction, and nobody but a governess can give it. It is
(foolish wretch!) that it might be in my power to restore happiness to
have no trace of him at present, although our exertions to discover him
rate! However, the Multiplication Table doesn’t signify: let’s try
Her fellow-travellers the next day were not of a kind to make her think
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give;
held the corpse of my dead mother in my arms; a shroud enveloped her
without even waiting to put his shoes on.
collected the instruments of life around me, that I might infuse a
was.
_The Bingleys and the Gardiners and the Lucases, Miss Darcy and Miss de
September 9th, the ice began to move, and roarings like thunder were heard
myself sincerely sympathize with you, and all your respectable
“We were born in the same parish, within the same park; the greatest
standing near enough for her to overhear a conversation between him and
were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who
care will be born to replace those of whom we have been so cruelly
improve himself by such an example as hers, he might become a very
very rapidly, as well as her affection for Jane; and when they parted,
housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all. Mr. Bingley
would be violated by my marriage with Mr. Darcy. And with regard to the
“May I hope, madam, for your interest with your fair daughter Elizabeth,
brings a curious consequence with it. There is much more difference as
acquaintance are connected. Wickham passed all his youth there, you
very little! Besides, _she’s_ she, and _I’m_ I, and—oh dear, how
great house at Stoke, if the drawing-room were larger; but Ashworth is
bestowed it most unwillingly. I am sorry to have occasioned pain to
But here, to Alice’s great surprise, the Duchess’s voice died away,
not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as
“I _don’t_ know,” said the Caterpillar.
could from such disgraceful companions. That he was _surprised_ by the
“My dear aunt, this is being serious indeed.”
unknown before. They could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr.
the whole party. In a moment they were all out of the chaise, rejoicing
had attended them, and where she had seen such beautiful ornaments as
and I earnestly entreated her to retire, resolving not to join her
About the middle of the next day, as she was in her room getting ready
CHAPTER XXIII.
and to say, with all the fervour that warmed me, how gladly I would
“At Church”
shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind. I was anxious
has _particularly_ accused me I am ignorant; but of the truth of what I
“You must decide for yourself,” said Elizabeth; “and if, upon mature
to him. But I ought to beg his pardon, for I have no right to suppose
casualties that took place around them. The more I saw of them, the
her in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed,
“It is no such thing. Lydia does not leave me because she is married;
arrived from Mrs. Gardiner, which at once delayed its commencement and
think of us. I am sure Wickham would like a place at court very
Catherine, and his kind intention of christening, marrying, and burying
with tears, which she endeavoured to wipe away unperceived; but I
resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole of that morning.
moreover, to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain
auditor. He had heard my story with that half kind of belief that is given
intrigue of_ Emma, _but contributes it in a fashion which I do not think
will meet my eyes, when that imagination will haunt my thoughts no more.
next a prey for worms and the decay of the tomb! Of what materials was I
“Could I expect it to be otherwise?” said she. “Yet why did he come?”
I threw myself into the carriage that was to convey me away, hardly
known your mother, I should have advised her most strenuously to engage
succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.
doubt her seeing them all in due time well disposed of in marriage. This
happened in London, Mr. Collins invited them to take a stroll in the
despicable.”
’tis love, that makes the world go round!’”
“Perfectly so, I thank you.”
in so strange a vehicle.
but to utter sounds that were monotonous, and neither resembling the
endured incalculable fatigue, and cold, and hunger; do you dare destroy my
and this was her dream:—
had provided a physician and a nurse. It is true, he seldom came to
anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one’s own
with the solitude I coveted for the prosecution of my task; yet at the
angry countenances of his companions. “Why do you answer me so
application, and elegance, as you describe, united.”
“You need not distress yourself. The moral will be perfectly fair. Lady
again, having still a great deal to say to her, and many inquiries to
forebodings. I arrived here yesterday, and my first task is to assure
talking together: she made out the words: “Where’s the other
and the future gilded by bright rays of hope and anticipations of joy.”
the Arve, which pursued its noisy way beneath. The same lulling sounds
which by its enormity should almost efface the recollection of the past.
too much afraid of him to talk; Elizabeth was secretly forming a
sufficiently to confide in my prudence and considerateness whenever the
former acquaintance had been numerous; but since he had been in the
countenance may vouch for your being amiable.” But she contented herself
knowledge and how much happier that man is who believes his native town
many more than three.”
was fresh in her memory; and as she recalled his very words, it was
to me; the threat I had heard weighed on my thoughts, but I did not
looking earnestly in her face, was pleased to see it healthful and
connected with the letter he held. It suddenly struck her that it might
thee a sight which you abhor. Still thou canst listen to me and grant
old man, and taking his guitar, played some airs so entrancingly
dungeon. Melancholy followed, but by degrees I gained a clear
“We do also, unfortunately,” replied my father, “for indeed I had
amongst the thanks of the table the hint of a hope that she might be
curious to know what he would say on the subject of their hasty
one wears this summer, after the ----shire have left Meryton, and they
for the honour of seeing you here.”
“Yours, etc.”
deficient in something herself--sense or feeling.”
Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention
“Never, sir.”
of them talk fast enough; and Wickham, who happened to sit near
the youngest, I dare say Mr. Bingley will dance with you at the next
further in his profession. Lydia was occasionally a visitor there, when
passage be opened, I should be rash enough to continue my voyage and
third time. I am, therefore, by no means discouraged by what you have
Mr. Darcy smiled; but Elizabeth thought she could perceive that he was
ready to think your own children silly. If I wished to think slightingly
my news: it is about dear Wickham; too good for the waiter, is not it?
suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a letter
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
The time fixed for the beginning of their northern tour was now fast
her distress, wished it a happier conclusion than there was at present
returned, and like a mighty tide, overwhelmed every other feeling.
“I am not going to run away, papa,” said Kitty, fretfully. “If _I_
me. She was a hired nurse, the wife of one of the turnkeys, and her
late-discovered unworthiness of one beloved and so was disposed to set
passed me quickly, and I lost it in the gloom. Nothing in human shape could
people! Why, there’s hardly enough of me left to make _one_ respectable
tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton! I owe all that I know
but this country, Victor, pleases me more than all those wonders. The
address him on his weakest side. With his notions of dignity, he would
sharp little chin into Alice’s shoulder as she added, “and the moral of
the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything that
An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and
_did_--I heard something about it--but I hardly know what--something
occasion. The younger girls formed hopes of _coming out_ a year or two
acquired by trade.
The Longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart; and by a
“When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. Bingley,” said her mother,
and bitterness. The nearer I approached to your habitation, the more
Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, “Drive on, old fellow! Don’t be all
injury on these rugged roads. The weather was fine; it was about the
their simple joys, remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer
“Undoubtedly,” replied Darcy, to whom this remark was chiefly addressed,
this period, when so many misfortunes weigh upon you, but a
it was sufficient to provide him with sustenance for some months, and in
man that what I conceived to be the best assistants to my plan may have
man appeared enraptured and said some words which Agatha endeavoured to
him I gnashed my teeth, my eyes became inflamed, and I ardently wished to
much entailed as ever. The Lucases are very artful people, indeed,
“I must not decide on my own performance.”
repent.
accents,--
character, if you think I can be worked on by such persuasions as these.
When I returned home my first care was to procure the whole works of this
“Oh, don’t talk about trouble!” said the Duchess. “I make you a present
[Illustration:
human being. Nature decayed around me, and the sun became heatless;
sister was on the point of being most advantageously married, but that
shall not. Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace
will appear possible in these wild and mysterious regions which would
do.”
of nature; nor can I doubt but that my tale conveys in its series
From Derby, still journeying northwards, we passed two months in
been insufficient to make his wife understand his character. _Her_ mind
but _this_ is the true one. Nothing was to be done that he did not
“Your father’s estate is entailed on Mr. Collins, I think? For your
“Engaged by the river”
to me to make me a requisition which, in justice, I could not refuse.
Bennet will defer yours till I am out of the room, I shall be very
Next came an angry voice—the Rabbit’s—“Pat! Pat! Where are you?” And
“_I’ve_ been to a day-school, too,” said Alice; “you needn’t be so
“Spring advanced rapidly; the weather became fine and the skies
ever.
directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the cottage of my
concerning that gentleman, and required information; and Elizabeth had
“Oh, I’ve had such a curious dream!” said Alice, and she told her
but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her that she was
She was roused from her seat and her reflections, by someone’s approach;
when the mark of the fingers was mentioned I remembered the murder of
he, “I would not that a mutilated one should go down to
it. I am surrounded by mountains of ice which admit of no escape and
entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through
high, she immediately said,--
“Oh, _you_ sing,” said the Gryphon. “I’ve forgotten the words.”
world, you will have heard my story and can decide. On you it rests,
“Exceed their income! My dear Mr. Bennet,” cried his wife, “what are you
whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well. The more I see
Elizabeth to the enjoyment of all her original dislike.
(Alice began to say “I once tasted—” but checked herself hastily, and
sent his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that, as soon
returned within the stated time. Seriously, however, she felt tolerably
not allow that any objections _there_ had material weight with Mr.
described, I saw at the open window a figure the most hideous and abhorred.
minutes a tumultuous sea rolled between me and my enemy, and I was left
will go when once they come to be entailed.”
our walk farther than usual. It was already dusk before we thought of
as possible prevented her husband from pressing her; but Mr. Collins
“Wow! wow! wow!”
eyes. She sang, and her voice flowed in a rich cadence, swelling or
old and beautiful oak which stood about twenty yards from our house; and so
was,” he said.
sight, they were getting so far off). “Oh, my poor little feet, I
“Of Mr. Collins and Lizzy. Lizzy declares she will not have Mr. Collins,
now and then directed me, and I possessed a map of the country; but I
between hills, not high, but steep, and of beautiful forms. We saw
I’ve got to grow up again! Let me see—how _is_ it to be managed? I
suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant females.”
did not expect any success from this measure; but as his brother was
deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his two sisters is
“It was noon when I awoke, and allured by the warmth of the sun, which
sustained. Ever since the fatal night, the end of my labours, and the
“there is meanness in _all_ the arts which ladies sometimes condescend
other without desiring a more intimate union, may not such also be our
“Very, very much. Nothing could give either Bingley or myself more
“A little.”
again over the perverseness of the meeting. And his behaviour, so
funeral, this thy dirge!” As I said these words, I perceived in the
rippling of the waves, silent and listless. But the fresh air and
less, his son might have borne with me better; but his father’s uncommon
sentiment of pity. Below this picture was a miniature of William; and my
permission my mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to yield their
the chief of it. Her many attractions were again dwelt on; and Caroline
each, like Elizabeth, meant to dance half the evening with Mr. Wickham,
accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour
pleasanter aspect: but she soon saw that her friend had an excellent
off, without waiting for the end of the song.
Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands,
such as would alone compensate for the outrages and anguish I had
it:--till it appeared whether her inquiries would receive any
was so thoughtful.
favour an attachment, and nothing to prevent it, am I wrong, my dearest
communicativeness by his questions and remarks: Mrs. Reynolds, either
Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of
“What for?” said Alice.
and I recovered only to overwhelm him with words expressive of furious
he replied, “To seek one who fled from me.”
sworn to quit the neighbourhood of man and hide himself in deserts, but she
studied the wild fancies of these writers with delight; they appeared to me
Tears, unrestrained, fell from my brother’s eyes; a sense of mortal
animated by an almost supernatural enthusiasm, my application to this
their intention. I must conclude, for I cannot be long from my poor
couldn’t get them out again. That’s all.”
what had since passed, to provoke her. She lost all concern for him in
especially to her friend.
side by preparations for the reception of his bride, as he had reason to
“Safie related that her mother was a Christian Arab, seized and made a
to meet and grapple with him.
my situation in life has allowed me to acquire. About the court, such
What would become of you?
felicity, nor humbled by any remembrance of her misconduct.
daughter; but, from some particulars that he has related of her
manner.”
“I knew,” said he, “that what I wrote must give you pain, but it was
“Safie resolved to remain with her father until the moment of his
“I don’t like the look of it at all,” said the King: “however, it may
herself, she thought of his regard with a deeper sentiment of gratitude
was not unwelcome for its own sake. The journey would, moreover, give
spoke to.”
cottage together.
He came, and in such very good time, that the ladies were none of them
sinking under his misfortune; and your persuasions will induce poor
it had not been so in Derbyshire. There he had talked to her friends
Soon after my arrival my father spoke of my immediate marriage with
and completely do for us at once. Good Heaven! Brighton and a whole
and to produce sounds sweeter than the voice of the thrush or the
cure the wound which I had received. The ball had entered my shoulder,
love, and the object of that love her friend Eliza, she set herself
an hour after I had seen you.”
which would admit of a chair. And on the gentlemen’s approaching, one of
moment of the time so precious; but as she reached the door, it was
conjectures, they could at last only suppose his visit to proceed from
TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE, LONDON.
“In that case,” said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, “I move
_To Mrs. Saville, England._
was a hope shortly checked by other considerations; and she soon felt
which she might in future be able to dispense.
tears in her eyes, “that a sister’s sense of decency and virtue in such
father, and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a
thoughtfulness and sadness succeeded; at length, laying aside the
to the extreme fatigue both of body and of mind which I had endured.
as she allowed him to speak. “You either choose this method of passing
which soon procured her pardon, and directed all his anger against
laugh at them whenever I can. But these, I suppose, are precisely what
retired under the pretence of seeking repose, each fancying that the
subject; but not guessing the real cause, he attributed my feelings to
these visits. She examined into their employments, looked at their work,
perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland of long ago: and how she
“Yes, always,” she replied, without knowing what she said; for her
engaged with Mr. Darcy that they scarcely ever saw him. I found that
understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and
bore so alarming an affinity to his own history of himself--her feelings
*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 1342 ***
judge?”
to the ball in a hack chaise.”
I had felt, as a child, on learning that my father’s dying injunction
her if they can. Though not in the least “impudent and mannish grown,”
existence of the living monument of presumption and rash ignorance
proceed with my tale.
feelings, I was of course led to admire peaceable lawgivers, Numa,
wind was unfavourable, and the rain fell in torrents. However, it was
she admired him.
In the morning, however, as soon as it was light, I went upon deck and
neighbourhood had of him, should then be overthrown? And even when it
retailing them all to the younger Miss Lucases; and Lydia, in a voice
“And can you likewise declare, that there is no _foundation_ for it?”
Philips’s manners and politeness. He protested that, except Lady
was sneezing on the Duchess’s knee, while plates and dishes crashed
relations in Kent, his actions were capable of a very different
endured.
of these terms.
“I can readily believe,” answered he, gravely, “that reports may vary
delighted. You come to us now to share a misery which nothing can
her mother gave her to understand that the probability of their marriage
Elizabeth did not know what to make of it. Had she not seen him in
“of conversing easily with those I have never seen before. I cannot
exactly know what Mr. Gardiner has done for them, because Wickham has
“Then it ought to be Number One,” said Alice.
it. Wickham will soon be gone; and, therefore, it will not signify to
alleged against him had been the cause of his condemnation.
and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favour. The Turk,
physiognomy and manners, but not on that account the less valuable. In
Jane looked well, and Elizabeth had little opportunity of studying her
the affection of others to such a wretch as I am! It removes more than
herself.
her hopes as her fears; and after talking with her in this manner till
feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them. My temper
interfere. What could he mean? She was dying to know what could be his
me to the dust; and, in executing the award of justice, I shall also
life, one hundred pounds per annum. These are conditions which,
want of skill or fidelity in my instructors. And thus for a time I was
in it.
should have great pleasure, I am sure, in obliging the company with an
Mr. Bennet’s emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such
“You certainly do,” she replied with a smile; “but it does not follow
mine. I must beg, therefore, to be importuned no further on the
that she is perfectly convinced of her brother’s indifference; and that
after breakfast, he addressed the mother in these words,--
ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me.”
analysing all the minutiae of causation, as exemplified in the change
“Is that his design in settling here?”
Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came
however, in believing the housekeeper; and they soon became sensible
haven’t got much evidence _yet_,” she said to herself. Imagine her
“When _my_ eyes were opened to his real character, oh! had I known what
intimation of her knowing her master.
In the dining-room they were soon joined by Mary and Kitty, who had been
sister, to observe the game.
think it a faithful portrait, undoubtedly.”
in spite of her youth and her manners, she retained all the claims to
“‘Where do these friends reside?’
on the steps of the house, as they entered the paddock; and when the
Ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into it herself. She
And now, dear Margaret, do I not deserve to accomplish some great purpose?
it; yet the tale which I have recorded would be incomplete without this
After an interval I arose, and as if by instinct, crawled into the room
How Wickham and Lydia were to be supported in tolerable independence she
everywhere. But to be candid without ostentation or design,--to take the
warn me off his grounds.”
sphere. He is a gentleman; I am a gentleman’s daughter; so far we are
it is you hate—C and D,” she added in a whisper, half afraid that it
morning with admirable slyness, and hasten to Lucas Lodge to throw
perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question. However, at
developed new and mightier scenes of action. I read of men concerned
again. “I have just had a letter from Jane, with such dreadful news. It
“I had once some thoughts of fixing in town myself, for I am fond of
“We must burn the house down!” said the Rabbit’s voice; and Alice
be your man. He is a pleasant fellow, and would jilt you creditably.”
had no power to produce it. By degrees, after the morning’s dawn,
regret what he had thrown away.
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing. For
gloom a figure which stole from behind a clump of trees near me; I stood
yet been in his deeds of blood, I should almost regard him as
“After a short survey”
[Illustration:
neighbourhood, and take Pemberley for a kind of model. There is not a
always write such charming long letters to her, Mr. Darcy?”
A Mad Tea-Party
The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family. Mrs.
drew back, and said with some discomposure to Sir William,--
with a sly smile, how Cornelius Agrippa went on, whilst M. Waldman
good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those
being partial to her, but Elizabeth always laughed at the idea; and Mrs.
“Yes, sir; but I do not know when _that_ will be. I do not know who is
might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in
another letter of thanks.
circumstances, however, he was not likely to be proof against the
a great and sudden change. The sun might shine or the clouds might lower,
nothing to hope, but that his eyes were so often turned towards her side
place. We were affectionate playfellows during childhood, and, I
but Mrs. Bennet, who had persuaded herself that her husband regarded the
until I had obtained some knowledge as to the situation of my enemy.
him except just now and then; so do not put yourself to inconvenience.”
touch or sight; but I now found that I could wander on at liberty, with
convalescence. I avoided explanation and maintained a continual silence
“I wish I hadn’t mentioned Dinah!” she said to herself in a melancholy
these deserving people. When I slept or was absent, the forms of the
afraid he has been very imprudent, and has deserved to lose Mr. Darcy’s
speaks. And there is something of dignity in his countenance, that would
wonder. Elizabeth said nothing, but it gratified her exceedingly; the
conversation in which she had no share. “Louisa, you will not mind my
fancy, but the beings themselves who visit him from the regions of a
“I confess,” said he, “that I should not have been at all surprised by
be then. He was very fond of them.”
CHAPTER XXXV.
which rendered it necessary that he should approve highly to love
acquaintance with spirit.
letter was to this effect:--
This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.
imprudence had brought on in any of those pleasures which too often
and boundless seas. But I was perfectly unacquainted with towns and
Elizabeth quietly answered “undoubtedly;” and, after an awkward pause,
conversation beginning with his parsonage-house, and leading naturally
frivolous as the application was ill-judged. You have widely mistaken my
eye of feeling and delight, than in listening to my reflections. I, a
“he would not have danced half so much! For God’s sake, say no more of
drink to our good journey.
story earlier, and brings about the denouement with complete propriety.
two motives.
Fixed there by the keenest of all anguish, self-reproach, she could
passed off much better than she expected; for Mrs. Bennet luckily stood
it had been mis-sent elsewhere. Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as
there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a
CHAPTER I.
_you_--that Miss Elizabeth Bennet would, in all likelihood, be soon
[Illustration]
about it, and to ask when Mr. Denny comes back from town.”
farmer, because he often went forth and did not return until dinner,
warm terms on the happy prospect of their nearer connection. Mr. Collins
rubbed it, and Daniel went to the town for an apothecary, but life was
feeling. I desire the company of a man who could sympathise with me, whose
him to act as he has done. But if you are really innocent and
in Charlotte’s, did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence.
yesterday.”
fortnight, and was certain of a willing listener in Jane, whenever she
you know, that something would happen to put it off, and then I should
soon, and repeatedly tried to persuade Miss Bennet that it would not be
another sex, but as hideous as myself; the gratification is small, but it
every review of it. That she should receive an offer of marriage from
“I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go--or you may send
Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to
“She seems a very pleasant young woman,” said Bingley.
has done no harm to anyone but myself.”
and ragged bare ravine, the eagle, soaring amidst the clouds—they all
“You did! and it was not wholly without foundation. You may remember
hardly morning, and I might reasonably hope to arrive by night. I hired men
me the history of my earlier years. The tale was quickly told, but it
“While I can have my mornings to myself,” said she, “it is enough. I
“I comfort myself with thinking,” replied Jane, “that he certainly would
a nice sheltered path, which no one seemed to value but herself, and
ventured abroad during daylight, fearful of meeting with the same
Allen._]]
gathered round me and bade me be at peace.
with any of them. There was no one, therefore, who could be pointed out
now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon
your daughter; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make
“Perhaps it would have been better,” replied her sister.
Netherfield the whole winter; a report which highly incensed Mrs.
received any invitation thither, for while there were visitors in the
you draw?”
Many times I considered Satan as the fitter emblem of my condition, for
certain, absolutely certain?”
harbour, which I entered, my heart bounding with joy at my unexpected
at the Mouse’s tail; “but why do you call it sad?” And she kept on
Elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment; yet she tried to
consolation of your father. Elizabeth, my love, you must supply my place to
state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed
peculiar and characteristic dialogue; such figures as Miss Bates, as the
“Jane happened to look round”
the next moment open the front door and quit the house. The tumult of
bleeds; and she had never forgotten that, if you drink much from a
addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.
them to be playing high, she declined it, and making her sister the
married woman.”
walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face.
With such rivals for the notice of the fair as Mr. Wickham and the
With the mention of Derbyshire, there were many ideas connected. It was
his eyes and uttered a shrill scream; I drew his hand forcibly from his
evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of its
that young lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me.”
after your departure for Ingolstadt, Justine was called home by her
me the duty of obeying the dying request of my friend in destroying his
Lydia not to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me,
breeze blows fairly, and the watch on deck scarcely stir. Again there
waves or the fall of some vast fragment, the thunder sound of the
accident only could discover to Mr. Bingley her sister’s being in town.
“While I improved in speech, I also learned the science of letters as
be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
well-known path that conducted to the cottage. All there was at peace.
feelings to one another by articulate sounds. I perceived that the words
also coming to wait on her; and she had barely time to express her
nothing particular to say to you, Lizzy?”
“Come back!” the Caterpillar called after her. “I’ve something
the face of man; all sound of joy or complacency was torture to me;
time, therefore--I shall certainly try to get the better----”
“Justine Moritz! Poor, poor girl, is she the accused? But it is
Great God! Why did I not then expire! Why am I here to relate the
CHORUS.
about Mr. Robinson.”
though elated by his rank, it did not render him supercilious; on the
readers the pleasant shocks, the delightful thrills, which are felt by
at once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the
traversed the snows with inconceivable speed. I know not whether the
the affair became public.
comparison of that total want of propriety so frequently, so almost
think it will be very tolerable. Besides, it will not much signify what
could not consent to go and hear that little conceited fellow deliver
after the sun had risen; the day, which was one of the first of spring,
Why should _he_ have it more than anybody else?”
Wickham. What a good joke it will be! I can hardly write for
that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not make out
what I look on as a point of duty. Pardon me for neglecting to profit by
“I am sure I shall break _mine_,” said Lydia.
feel the inconvenience of the weather; my imagination was busy in
was readily joined by Jane, and by making a variety of remarks on the
His voice seemed suffocated, and my first impulses, which had suggested to
roughly?” I replied. “Surely it is not the custom of Englishmen to
almost impossible for her to appear tolerably cheerful.
waiting on her after his return from London, whither he was obliged to
contemplated the lake: the waters were placid; all around was calm; and the
you liked her. I hope she will turn out well.”
happiness, with simple truth—Do you not love another?
“—as far out to sea as you can—”
of the distemper—Elizabeth was saved, but the consequences of this
altered a creature, that when she went away I was perfectly
Begone, vile insect! Or rather, stay, that I may trample you to dust! And,
the moment; and my present sensations strongly intimated that the fiend
of one who had ten thousand a year.
might trace the steps of my fiendish enemy. But my plan was unsettled,
The Bennets were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in the
part of London they were. The particulars I reserve till we meet.
among the trees formed a scene of singular beauty. But it was
shrubbery. They both set off; and the conjectures of the remaining three
“Shall you ever have courage to announce to Lady Catherine what is to
“But it is,” returned she; “for Mrs. Long has just been here, and she
maintaining at the same time the most resolute composure of countenance,
conversations in it, “and what is the use of a book,” thought Alice
know what would become of her, for she is very ill indeed, and suffers a
that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never be
place of rest. The country in the neighbourhood of this village
field after field at a quick pace, jumping over stiles and springing
it would happen. But who could have foreseen such an attention as this?
Netherfield Park is let at last?”
ear and left foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried it
will do the business.”
her deference for his opinion.
“It is more than I engage for, I assure you.”
brother’s manners there was something better than politeness--there was
executes nobody, you know. Come on!”
[Illustration:
“There is some sense in what he says about the girls, however; and, if
a tree a few yards off.
appearance, but instead of offering me any assistance, whispered
“May we take my uncle’s letter to read to her?”
CHAPTER XXX.
but as there was little to do in the frosty season, he read to the old
signs of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however,
man, I fell at last in a state of utter exhaustion; a film covered my
you can. But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew. He has
visible below, she had willingly turned to look at some drawings of Miss
far as I understood the signification of those terms, relative as they
as in the gospel, has now set himself at the head of the university; and if
This may not be; cease to argue the point, for I cannot consent.”
of perfect civility.
too.”
somewhat fastidious; but this only renders you the more fit to
Very few days passed in which Mr. Collins did not walk to Rosings, and
and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or three more of the men came in, they
‘This young gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with everything the
/* RIGHT “Gracechurch Street, _Monday, August 2_. */
them; sometimes it was the watery, clouded eyes of the monster, as I
depended on the lessons of any of the professors at Ingolstadt, my
of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable man. I would
that I might have him within my grasp to wreak a great and signal
few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended;
to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
to see them and then himself corrected and augmented them in many places,
“My mother would have no objection, but my father hates London.”
description of only one of Lady Catherine’s drawing-rooms, and found
it would have afforded me inexpressible pleasure. But a blight had
of the fashionable world, he was caught by their easy playfulness. Of
“Come, Mr. Wickham, we are brother and sister, you know. Do not let us
You never see a fault in anybody. All the world are good and agreeable
[Illustration:
affair has taken place, it is said that he left Meryton greatly in debt:
himself; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into
a steady purpose—a point on which the soul may fix its intellectual
Bennet and Kitty, though she was perfectly unknown to them, even
And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and
English girl, brought up in a country retirement, at the time when
rock. The air was cold, and the rain again began to descend; we
uncontrollable passion.
with all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion in her soft and
soon as he comes.”
Lady Catherine seemed pleased.
the idea of returning if set free. Yet could I, in justice, or even in
aware that it could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds
and began talking to herself, as usual. “Come, there’s half my plan
“But what happens when you come to the beginning again?” Alice ventured
fine form of man was degraded and wasted; I beheld the corruption of
Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
it was due. But, Lizzy, this must go no further than yourself, or
reception, however, was of the most flattering kind. Miss Lucas
heart in the world, she knew it was a circumstance which must prejudice
“My beauty you had early withstood, and as for my manners--my behaviour
fresh life and vigour. Adieu to disappointment and spleen. What are men
for money. Well, much good may it do them! And so, I suppose, they often
After passing some months in London, we received a letter from a person in
had already lost three days of happiness, and immediately wrote as
you dry enough!” They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the
yet I was passionately fond of reading. These volumes were my study
the development of filial love.
the end of every line:
the power of rendering you happy? Ah! While we love, while we are
even the _appearance_ of what is right. His pride, in that direction,
seen, and I generally subsisted on the wild animals that crossed my
husband’s love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their
I had sagacity enough to discover that the unnatural hideousness of my
resolved to speak to Elizabeth on the subject before she left
his favourite child, should be distressing him by her choice, should be
only guide. I did not know the names of the towns that I was to pass
and rank, the merchant commanded his daughter to think no more of her
her children produced so happy an effect as to make her a sensible,
“How nicely we are crammed in!” cried Lydia. “I am glad I brought my
and it was judged that his religion and wealth rather than the crime
_Agatha,_ and the youth _Felix, brother,_ or _son_. I cannot
himself.
Lady Catherine; and under that apprehension was putting away her
to see what would happen next.
they entered the passage, she was there to welcome them, and Elizabeth,
reason. He may live in my memory as the most amiable man of my
They were confined for the evening at different tables; and she had
the gradual transformation of Elizabeth’s own feelings from positive
assured, sir,” said he, “no pains or exertions on my part shall
found all the sailors busy on one side of the vessel, apparently
and some time afterwards from the two elegant ladies who waited on his
your journal of the four months that preceded my creation. You
Mrs. Hurst sang with her sister; and while they were thus employed,
father, however, is partial to Mr. Wickham. In short, my dear aunt, I
CHAPTER XXIX.
they must feel.” I wrote, and this exertion greatly fatigued me; but
and rivers, shall not be jumbled together in our imaginations; nor, when
present I have not room to do them justice.”
Bingley, I am sure. Why, Jane--you never dropped a word of this--you sly
exult in the agony of the torturing flames. The light of that conflagration
Mrs. Hill began instantly to express her joy. Elizabeth received her
“now I enjoy existence! But you, my dear Frankenstein, wherefore are
some of the gentlemen at Pemberley by noon.
the cabin, for he is far too weak to sustain the rawness of the atmosphere.
first saw them in my chamber at Ingolstadt.
vintage, but my eyes were insensible to the charms of nature. And the
Justine, that miserable epoch from which I dated all my woe. The
[Illustration:
could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing
get the trial done,” she thought, “and hand round the refreshments!”
you and that in my airy dreams of futurity you have been my constant
Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking
never again inhabit your cottage. The life of my father is in the greatest
extraordinary kindness she was treated with. Elizabeth silently attended
cousin to give her opinion of all that she had seen at Rosings, which,
As they walked across the lawn towards the river, Elizabeth turned back
“Would you believe it, Lizzy, that when he went to town last November he
himself to her; and that he should therefore make a point of remaining
observed its path through the chasms of the higher and the glens of the
of them.” In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Alice put
the m—”
by the coffin of her dead father. Her garb was rustic, and her cheek pale;
“If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy,” cried a young Lucas, who came with his
“You must create a female for me with whom I can live in the
“I should like to have it explained,” said the Mock Turtle.
in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was leaning over the fire,
Bingley. What he told me was merely this: that he congratulated himself
us again; I will go to the vast wilds of South America. My food is not
“Why, what are _your_ shoes done with?” said the Gryphon. “I mean, what
good luck, I may meet with another Mr. Collins in time.”
been considered as the ravings of a madman and would not have
“And men take care that they should.”
sea; it was to be my grave. “Fiend,” I exclaimed, “your
at least as good as she gets when she is attacked; but she never
“She most of all,” said Ernest, “requires consolation; she accused
“It was a subject which they could not mention before me.”
would have shrunk from such things as the letter from the unfortunate
said, “_Everybody_ has won, and all must have prizes.”
the leisure and comfort they had built on, they were obliged to give up
were often in the hands of Felix or Agatha. Before I depart I will
of some pleasure, though mixed with regret, on finding how steadfastly
beings. Alas! I prophesied truly, and failed only in one single
Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately suppressed by
from the force of the current, saved her and dragged her to shore. She
and have the same defects. This being you must create.”
but uninterrupted by any sudden shock of misery. If I returned, it was to
from Caroline Bingley: what it contains has surprised me a good deal.
philosophy, including mathematics.”
so I was determined he should know it, and so I let down the side glass
Mrs. Bennet assured her that they never sat there after dinner; and then
in company with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by a
I cannot doubt it, yet I am lost in surprise and admiration. Sometimes I
better, but this is not to be expected; and as to my father, I never in
eminently quintessential of its author’s works; and for this contention
was not likely to be easily touched. That I was desirous of believing
“I’m afraid I’ve offended it again!” For the Mouse was swimming away
“Lizzy,” cried her mother, “remember where you are, and do not run on in
they last changed horses, see the postilions, and try if anything could
deep well.
good deal of curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raised
nonsensical to come at all! Why must _she_ be scampering about the
But, now that I’m perfectly sure I have none,
one of us. You purpose to kill me. How dare you sport thus with life?
and I could not have forgotten my revered father’s intentions. You will
have been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the
peace?”
to row and took an oar myself, for I had always experienced relief from
fear of doing wrong, would easily give to those who felt themselves
But, in spite of the certainty in which Elizabeth affected to place this
eat, drink, and play at cards, who, when he found her prefer a plain
Elizabeth instantly read her feelings; and, at that moment, solicitude
her equal for beauty, elegance, and accomplishments; and the affection
in and near Brighton with assurances of speedy payment, for which I have
victim and spared no pains to detect and punish his deliverer. The
well entertained in that room before; and they conversed with so much
as that she could encourage him herself; and her astonishment was
spirits that burst all bounds of reason and reflection. I lighted the
rather be paid the compliment of being believed sincere. I thank you
destruction upon the head of the speaker. The pines are not tall or
when Miss De Bourgh comes in.”
careful guardian of his sister; and you will hear him generally cried up
expression, every sentence of her uncle, which marked his intelligence,
of temper, that want of proper resolution, which now made him the slave
“Very well--and this offer of marriage you have refused?”
wrong. How you must have hated me after _that_ evening!”
You may conceive my astonishment on hearing such a question addressed
favourable opinion of Bingley, and then hurried away to dress.
both she and her uncle had been persuaded that affection and confidence
have gone quite distracted. And there was my aunt, all the time I was
whom we shall deprive you.’
without a governess! I never heard of such a thing. Your mother must
for anything more. Lady Catherine will not think the worse of you for
sister. They are all for what they can get. I am sorry to say it of
“Why, there they are!” said the King triumphantly, pointing to the
scandalous; but I verily believe I could forgive him anything and
see it all, but she could see it and write of it without material pain.
very different man from what he is to the less prosperous. His pride
“Had you then persuaded yourself that I should?”
of his having been to me--and, excepting a sore throat and a
“Unable to utter a syllable”
that I desired to learn; and whether it was the outward substance of
like a dream, yet distinct and oppressive as a reality.
continually sought the attainment of one object of pursuit and was
awed by the grandeur surrounding him, that he had but just courage
so soon after his arrival in Hertfordshire; and she began to fear that
discharging their bills. Their manner of living, even when the
anguish, is dear to me, and I will defend it. Remember, thou hast made
was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring! I had not believed
pleased to think how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they
thought she could witness without trepidation.
This was his plan of amends--of atonement--for inheriting their father’s
gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it),
man when they reserved none for themselves.
language so very abusive, especially of Elizabeth, that for some time
lake which lies between the promontory of Belrive and the village of
looking at him, she was a little relieved by his smile. In a few minutes
“and then,” thought she, “what would become of me? They’re dreadfully
you.”
kiss my hand if it likes.”
“Mrs. Long and her nieces”                                           420
To such perseverance in wilful self-deception Elizabeth would make no
uncommonly pretty.”
you will feel the effects of it. No officer is ever to enter my house
join him. He said that he was wearing away his time fruitlessly where
“I wish I could say anything to comfort you,” replied Elizabeth; “but it
“I’m glad I’ve seen that done,” thought Alice. “I’ve so often read in
one borne down as you are by so strange a misfortune. But you will, I
why did they live at the bottom of a well?”
the white cliffs of Britain. The banks of the Thames presented a new scene;
preserved.”
simply—‘Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might
and the Hursts have no horses to theirs.”
to the window--she looked--she saw Mr. Darcy with him, and sat down
Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was worse, and
most horrible kind hangs over me, and I must live to fulfil it, or surely I
distrust; and though the suddenness of their removal surprised her, she
hours must you endure until that period shall arrive.”
executed for having missed their turns, and she did not like the look
“‘I am about to undertake that task; and it is on that account that I
displayed consummate command of dialogue--perhaps the rarest of all
remains may afford no light to any curious and unhallowed wretch who would
scarcely give them a hearing. They were ignorant, idle, and vain. While
impartiality--deliberated on the probability of each statement--but with
all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick,
But there seemed to be no chance of this, so she began looking at
deserve.”
“No, no! The adventures first,” said the Gryphon in an impatient tone:
be delighted with her. She is all affability and condescension, and I
known her much longer than they have known me; no wonder if they love
By the use of this ointment—one shilling the box—
fortunate enough to be never without partners, which was all that they
they spoke well of her; but fear and hatred of the crime of which they
spoiler has not seized.
[Illustration]
shall choose to attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by
“But you blame me for having spoken so warmly of Wickham?”
indeed a paradise compared to the bleak forest, my former residence,
of reality.
refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom. Poor Lydia’s
house and sometimes in the yard.
of half-suppressed emotion, “Farewell, sweet lady, dearest Elizabeth,
Jane went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his
of the enticements of science. In other studies you go as far as
commence. My father and the rest of the family being obliged to attend
Thus strangely are our souls constructed, and by such slight ligaments
Elizabeth could hardly help smiling, as she assured her that had not
“Such were the events that preyed on the heart of Felix and rendered
wife for his bosom, and each beast have his mate, and I be alone? I had
they had been generally proved to be marked out for misfortune.
arranged the cottage and prepared the food, and the youth departed
servant, to follow at her leisure with the greater part of his
They all returned from him to you,
noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness, with an
good-humour, and cheerfulness began to reappear at Longbourn. Everything
at home, of new books and music, that Elizabeth had never been half so
was little other than her own breast had formerly harboured and fancied
the discovery of this element was useful to me in my food, for I found
Tuesday, after my father went away; and was so good as to stay till
In vain did Elizabeth endeavour to check the rapidity of her mother’s
“Pepper, mostly,” said the cook.
Rabbit came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, “If you please,
impression. I had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such
weakness, such an assurance of the deepest disgrace. She could neither
knowing them to have been together the whole of last summer.”
pleasure, in the Bingleys’ invitation to the officers; and though this
reader, and has no pleasure in anything else.”
likes with her.”
they doing?” Alice whispered to the Gryphon. “They can’t have anything
two reasons. First, because I’m on the same side of the door as you
she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that
it was without her knowledge. That she had been bewildered when
necessary knowledge was not comprised in the noble art of book-keeping;
Wickham. Brother-in-law of Wickham! Every kind of pride must revolt from
wanted to counteract her mother’s schemes.
guard his courtship from any charm that could make a woman wish for its
restored to my family in peace and happiness. My promise fulfilled,
“Oh, do not repeat what I then said. These recollections will not do at
the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de Bourgh, widow of Sir Lewis
“My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. Let us hope for
mother. You deserve no such attention. I am most seriously displeased.”
who, I believe, will soon become a part of the family.”
had in view. His design was to visit India, in the belief that he had
bodily exercise to ease the load that weighed upon my mind. I
so totally independent of everyone.
one train of enjoyment to me.
by one spirit, everything relating to their journey was speedily
with unremitting ardour. My cheek had grown pale with study, and my
people crowded towards the spot. They seemed much surprised at my
their labours by servants. They did not appear rich, but they were
empires of Mexico and Peru had not been destroyed.
At length I arrived at the village of Chamounix. Exhaustion succeeded
At night she opened her heart to Jane. Though suspicion was very far
interpreter, and sometimes with the interpretation of looks; and Safie
the title of seduction, had been extended into every tradesman’s family.
sister, Manon, married M. Duvillard, the rich banker, last autumn. Your
speak ill of a Darcy; but she is too much like her brother,--very, very
my time and amuse me, and I am rewarded for any exertions by seeing
“I know little of the game at present,” said he, “but I shall be glad to
[Illustration]
that Mr. Wickham had accepted their uncle’s invitation, and was then in
“Cursed, cursed creator! Why did I live? Why, in that instant, did I
“You cannot be more than twenty, I am sure,--therefore you need not
accomplishment of her earnest desire in the establishment of so many of
sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. “I don’t quite
grand words to say.)
inquiring surprise in her uncle and aunt as made everything worse.
after the death of M. Moritz, treated her very ill. My aunt observed
“Blame you! Oh, no.”
frailty would have mortified her so much. Not, however, from any fear of
exasperate farther; and when he ceased the colour rose into her cheeks
the ball. But you would not wish to be dancing while she is ill?”
moved.
“They are going to be encamped near Brighton; and I do so want papa to
all wash off in the sea. But they _have_ their tails in their mouths;
shape. One day, when my father had gone by himself to Milan, my mother,
record have been, appeared the lowest degradation, a condition more
“Every conversation of the cottagers now opened new wonders to me.
We passed a few sad hours until eleven o’clock, when the trial was to
reason to hope, and, leaving his compliments for her relations, with
says. Happy shall I be when his stay at Netherfield is over!”
electricity and galvanism, which was at once new and astonishing to me.
curtailed its extent. Mr. Gardiner would be prevented by business from
letters that he received from this lovely girl, who found means to
will be but half deserved.”
Pray do not talk of that odious man. I do think it is the hardest thing
superiority of mind--pride will be always under good regulation.”
feeling, and sense will pass away; and in this condition must I find my
Lydia! How merry we shall be together when we meet!”
On my return, I found the following letter from my father:—
look appeared on either side that spoke particular regard. Nothing
cottagers had a means of prolonging light by the use of tapers, and was
hour; was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms, satisfied
who, I shall think you a simpleton, for there is but one man in the
asked her for the two next. Then, the two third he danced with Miss
and found a passage to life, aided only by one glimmering and seemingly
deal to come before that!”
murder to leave it behind?” She said the last words out loud, and the
any beauty in her. Her face is too thin; her complexion has no
wanted a little pressing to accept it, when Jane testified such concern
“I knocked. ‘Who is there?’ said the old man. ‘Come in.’
of peculiar, but of general evils, which I am now complaining. Our
that remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and the care
my creation and creator I was absolutely ignorant, but I knew that I
“Come on!” cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand, it hurried
repent of the injuries you inflict.”
even from Wickham; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave,
though this was not a _very_ good opportunity for showing off her
their all walking out. It was agreed to. Mrs. Bennet was not in the
would be nothing; I could see him with perfect indifference; but I can
modesty.”
talked, as before, to her other nephew; till the latter walked away from
mutual desire of never meeting again.
“I advise Mr. Darcy, and Lizzy, and Kitty,” said Mrs. Bennet, “to walk
of the town were already shut; and I was obliged to pass the night at
“I do, indeed,” replied Elizabeth, colouring. “I told you the other day
her sister. Her prudent mother, occupied by the same ideas, forbore to
Alice was just beginning to think to herself, “Now, what am I to do
violent cold, and that they must endeavour to get the better of it;
It was a strong effort of the spirit of good, but it was ineffectual.
material a step without her Ladyship’s concurrence.”
CHAPTER XX.
“My heart beat quick; this was the hour and moment of trial, which
gratefully accepted, and immediately ordered. The party then gathered
Bennet was beyond the reach of reason; and she continued to rail
thrown into prison. The news reached Felix and roused him from his
tolerably well acquainted with her own feelings, was perfectly aware
in me an infinity of new images and feelings, that sometimes raised me
understanding, but permit me to say that there must be a wide difference
remainder of his days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to
attacks of Mr. Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone
As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low voice,
disciple; and if your application equals your ability, I have no doubt of
with his parents ever since and even long before his birth. It may
and, lastly, it was so pleasant at her time of life to be able to
and your displeasure at this representation of them, let it give you
Be off, or I’ll kick you down stairs!”
own daughters. I suppose you have heard of it; indeed, you must have
instantly that her cousin’s manners were not altered by his marriage:
saved their lives; but I could not, my father, indeed I could not
control them, but allowing myself to be borne away by the stream, I
Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door—
This information made Elizabeth smile, as she thought of poor Miss
inclinations. “What a noble fellow!” you will exclaim. He is
them every possible amends; but of this hereafter. If you should
trial of her patience in weather which totally suspended the improvement
[Illustration:
grateful to her feelings, capable of consoling her for such discovery.
Elizabeth related to Jane, the next day, what had passed between Mr.
just, from the pain of obligation--were proved beyond their greatest
distinct idea presented itself to my mind, but my thoughts rambled to
_Still, all this does not explain her charm, which, taking beauty as a
“And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover her?”
listened to every blast of wind as if it were a dull ugly siroc on its
court.”
were, to procrastinate all that related to my feelings of affection
his cousin? Allow me to say, Lady Catherine, that the arguments with
northern pole.
Fitzwilliam himself--from whom she had previously received the
the room. No thanks to his gallantry for that. Well, he certainly is
“_I_ never saw such a woman. _I_ never saw such capacity, and taste, and
an ignorant little girl she’ll think me for asking! No, it’ll never do
Austen be not of itself a patent of exemption from any possible charge
soon as possible. I know my dear uncle and aunt so well, that I am not
done--done while Mrs. Bennet was stirring the fire. Elizabeth, equally
rest and learn to think ourselves fortunate whilst one remains whom the
night the ice broke and freed our ship. We, however, lay to until the
“Just about as much right,” said the Duchess, “as pigs have to fly; and
others.
formed this determination and having spent some months in successfully
purposes and firm as a rock. This ice is not made of such stuff as your
might almost have supposed himself in the small summer breakfast parlour
Gardiner; “but perhaps, to the Lakes.”
perpendicular ascent of Mont Salêve, a hill that bounds Plainpalais on the
transactions in which they had been connected, without actually naming
proportions. As he hung over the coffin, his face was concealed by long
the exertion of speaking, which nothing else had so effectually done
Mr. Darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years’
be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While she
she esteemed, she was grateful to him, she felt a real interest in his
hardly restrain her astonishment from being visible. Never, even in the
to do?”
And argued each case with my wife;
“By this time, my dearest sister, you have received my hurried letter; I
full. Pursuing her way along the lane, she then began it. It was dated
“You may, in fact, carry a very favourable report of us into
stranger. He manifested the greatest eagerness to be upon deck to watch for
traced to pride; and pride has often been his best friend. It has
“It is a long time, Mr. Bingley, since you went away,” said Mrs. Bennet.
A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that, although it is
her head!” Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the
are never eradicated; and they can judge of our actions with more
should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia.”
“I understood that there were some very strong objections against the
always very short. Those to her mother contained little else than that
morning, but the post came in without bringing a single line from him.
intend to follow the great road to Edinburgh, but to visit Windsor, Oxford,
only took the regular course.”
perceive objects in their right forms; I distinguished the insect from
circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to
a beauty! I should as soon call her mother a wit.’ But afterwards she
acuteness so soon as, the unnatural stimulus ceasing to operate, I had
business with his steward had occasioned his coming forward a few hours
Elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement, but was too much oppressed to
that existed who would pity or assist me; and should I feel kindness
within half a year from these events Mr. Wickham wrote to inform me
“I will soon explain to what these feelings tended, but allow me now to
these sensations; I thought that as I could not sympathise with him, I
the charm of recollection; and she was too much engaged in pointing out
“This trait of kindness moved me sensibly. I had been accustomed,
Elizabeth was sitting with her mother and sisters, reflecting on what
country.”
mounted high in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear. I
hands, and exclaimed aloud, “William, dear angel! this is thy
uncertain of giving happiness, must be their pleasantest preservative
yet it would seem, by her manner of talking, as if she wanted to
must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found
thought I saw the dreaded spectre glide into the room; “_he_ can
He smiled, and assured her that whatever she wished him to say should be
At length we saw the numerous steeples of London, St. Paul’s towering
[Illustration: Cheerful prognostics]
scarcely conceive, how they have tortured me; though it was some time, I
expressed the most heartfelt exultation in my progress. Two years
not their wish to force her communication. It was evident that she was
you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o’clock in
The next witness was the Duchess’s cook. She carried the pepper-box in
cease to regard it in the enjoyment of his.
heaven, could redeem my soul from woe; the very accents of love were
Thursday with me. She was of great use and comfort to us all, and Lady
They were excessively sorry to go! But so they always are. The dear
is nothing to us. You know, sister, we agreed long ago never to mention
should suffer from the change of room; and she removed, at his desire,
devotion and heroism, this elevation of mind had much the appearance of
with benevolence and love; the younger was slight and graceful in his
their eyes and mouths so _very_ wide, but she gained courage as she
the fields that surround it to meditate in what manner I should apply
case?”
spoke English, and I therefore addressed them in that language. “My
“One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you
dispositions; my life has been hitherto harmless and in some degree
brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going
No scheme could have been more agreeable to Elizabeth, and her
concerned. Till this moment, I never knew myself.”
she derives part of her abilities from her rank and fortune, part from
bitter circumstances to you, my dear sister; and while I am wafted
carriage drove up to the door, the joyful surprise that lighted up their
course of this morning?”
I beheld those I loved spend vain sorrow upon the graves of William and
with her, he might have better success. He stood by her, however, for
nor could Elizabeth persuade her to consider it as improbable. Kitty and
impatient for display.
Him, and ourselves, and it.
“I—I’m a little girl,” said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered
In Darcy’s presence she dared not mention Wickham’s name: but Elizabeth
Clerval; these were “old familiar faces,” but I believed myself
kind to them,” thought Alice, “or perhaps they won’t walk the way I
while her health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the
and loathsome person is given, in language which painted your own
rings, joined now and then in her brother’s conversation with Miss
“Yes, sir, I know I am. If I were to go through the world, I could not
if she could have committed the crime for which she suffered, assuredly
not that rude hand rent away some dear connection? And why should I
with any degree of certainty, for the ice had not broken until near
in my memory? No, it is not thus; your form so divinely wrought, and
walking, the tone of her voice, her address and expressions, or the word
attachment to Rosings certainly increases.”
first interview with its object, and even before two words have been
chemist if he attended to that department of human knowledge alone. If your
dwelling here, and we delighted to trace its footsteps. If these
The discomposure of spirits which this extraordinary visit threw
and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into
to dance with.
intend? Do you dare to break your promise? I have endured toil and misery;
German and had died on giving her birth. The infant had been placed with
me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of course, I could
The dinner was exceedingly handsome, and there were all the servants,
fulfilment of my destiny. In that hour I should die and at once satisfy and
my fellow creatures demanded of me that I should comply with his request.
uglifying!” it exclaimed. “You know what to beautify is, I suppose?”
Chapter 16
solve them.
come in a scarlet coat, and it was now some weeks since they had
Another entreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the
which must deaden them more. Mr. Darcy’s behaviour astonished and vexed
But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her head on her
“I am talking of possibilities, Charles.”
when he found the father inexorable, quitted his country, nor returned
advice, these illustrations are
which, after taking a small part, I always presented to those who had
_this_ size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!” So she
hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer
Pemberley property. He was most highly esteemed by Mr. Darcy, a most
Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern. She knew but little
cause, his attentions had been withdrawn, her vanity would be gratified,
remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was now rendering himself
Elizabeth, having rather expected to affront him, was amazed at his
good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning, and never said a
whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest--there is no occasion
It will pass away soon enough.”
Christian, but he feared the resentment of Felix if he should appear
residence there being no longer conducive to my improvements, I thought
this place I resolved to proceed.
quite provoked; but then I recollected my dear Elizabeth and Jane,
The colour now rushed into Elizabeth’s cheeks in the instantaneous
childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the closest
from the object of it, she may lose the opportunity of fixing him; and
“What you ask,” said Elizabeth, “is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr.
a situation, now put herself forward to confirm his account, by
expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us; but I am very
hurt you; listen to me.’
the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.
turning past, he was immediately before them. With a glance she saw that
some from their aunt. At present, indeed, they were well supplied both
address most truly the gentleman. Mr. Darcy looked just as he had been
to increase your own.”
to the guardianship of my mother’s nephew, Colonel Fitzwilliam, and
“If you were to give me forty such men I never could be so happy as you.
penetrate; the ground was dry; and it presented to me then as exquisite
and conceit. Unfortunately an only son (for many years an only _child_),
gathering her work together, she was hastening away, when Elizabeth
and populous towns occupy the scene.
or Lady Lucas without being rude; and many months were gone before she
quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend.”
pales opposite the Parsonage.
“—and I hadn’t begun my tea—not above a week or so—and what with the
undertaking whose immediate necessity began to appear less absolute to
CHAPTER L.
Mr. Darcy;--that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so
Colonel rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last; but Darcy
paddock, and ride towards the house.
“When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first
marriage with a young Englishman, John Melbourne, Esq. Her ugly
her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
way before the hope of Jane’s being in the fairest way for happiness.
of the world the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms
avoiding _him_ but what I might proclaim to all the world--a sense of
the officers of the court. (As that is rather a hard word, I will just
madness. He endeavoured to soothe me as a nurse does a child and
But if you will listen to his letter, you may, perhaps, be a little
the shore I felt those cares and fears revive which soon were to clasp
We had arrived in England at the beginning of October, and it was now
sea of green leaves that lay far below her.
loathed his own deformity, and might he not conceive a greater abhorrence
in terms as unreasonable as her accent was peevish.
of William, the execution of Justine, the murder of Clerval, and lastly
little chin.
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. “They must
long married, and their eldest child was but just born. The father of their
innocence is acknowledged by you, dear lady, and your cousin.”
form? His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as
Ladyship can hardly expect me to own it.”
on his countenance.
I struggled furiously and fell down in a fit.
uttering a groan that came from my inmost soul. Justine started. When
“What _is_ the fun?” said Alice.
self-destined to another.
but I sailed away from them. I felt as if I was about the commission of a
affection for me at length overcame his dislike of learning, and he has
in a noisome dungeon while he enjoyed the free air and the society of
alarmed by this account and passed several hours in looking for him,
should be forwarded at the sole expense of his brother-in-law; and he
“But _Paradise Lost_ excited different and far deeper emotions. I read
proposal. I knew that Mr. Wickham ought not to be a clergyman. The
there that day; but, though she always kept a very good table, she did
creature. Who would have thought she could be so thin and small!”
“Oh, there’s no use in talking to him,” said Alice desperately: “he’s
concluded on the most honourable terms, it was not to be supposed that
“These were the reflections of my hours of despondency and solitude;
That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other
He readily agreed to it.
into an airy dream and leave no trace but deep and everlasting regret.
“Yes,” thought Elizabeth; “_that_ would be a delightful scheme, indeed,
neither rational happiness, nor worldly prosperity could be justly
your cat grins like that?”
made by the latter. It had not been very great; he had lost every point;
everything about her, to pass away the time.
solicitude they showed for Jane. The apothecary came; and having
“Ten hours the first day,” said the Mock Turtle: “nine the next, and so
hope, soon quit this melancholy abode, for doubtless evidence can
“The obsequious civility.”
intercourse renewed after many years’ discontinuance.
perfectly ignorant of what had happened. They went to the library,
Lydia still; untamed, unabashed, wild, noisy, and fearless. She turned
accustomed studies. It seemed to me as if nothing would or could ever
unguarded and often uncivil, boisterously exclaimed,--
[Illustration]
seemed the effect of necessity rather than of choice--a sacrifice to
your name like an honest man.”
to send her away! And there are several of the young men, too, that she
for ever? Has this mind, so replete with ideas, imaginations fanciful
probably more than she felt for herself. The carriage was sent to meet
I mention it to you? Mr. Robinson’s asking him how he liked our Meryton
perceived to be blind, employed his leisure hours on his instrument or
determine and direct in what manner that friend was to be happy. But,”
“They were obliged to have him with them,” the Mock Turtle said: “no
to a milliner’s shop just over the way. The two youngest of the family,
Letter 1
beings who possessed exquisite sensations, happiness, and wisdom; nor do I
very wisely in leaving the girls to their own trifling amusements. Mrs.
clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of
From the entrance hall, of which Mr. Collins pointed out, with a
Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley both cried out against the injustice of her
Mr. Collins’s return into Hertfordshire was no longer a matter of
and a still greater that in less than a fortnight she should herself be
The idea of Mr. Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run away
His understanding and opinions all please me; he wants nothing but
The Mock Turtle went on.
is the more anxious to get Miss Darcy for her brother, from the notion
duties which we ought to perform; we must continue our course with the
before she heard of the discovery of the body, when she saw a boat with
“Upon my word! Well, that was very decided, indeed--that does seem as
Your sister has been talking to me about him, and asking me a thousand
“Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to say in
them?--the upstart pretensions of a young woman without family,
Bourgh when the living of Hunsford was vacant; and the respect which he
something should occur which might alter my determination. It was
But just at that time I inherited the fortune of my cousin, and my
constitution, which has prevented her making that progress in many
Two days after Mr. Bennet’s return, as Jane and Elizabeth were walking
something more substantial in the improvement of her mind by extensive
as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will
M. Waldman I found a true friend. His gentleness was never tinged by
“Offended two or three young ladies”                                 177
unwillingness; but allow me to assure you that I have your respected
found. Wickham, indeed, had gone to her on their first arrival in
“True. You _are_ a gentleman’s daughter. But what was your mother? Who
fiend and gained accurate information. A gigantic monster, they said,
it is a sort of attention which I conceive myself peculiarly bound to
I have declared my resolution to you, and I am no coward to bend
saving; and if you lament over him much longer, my heart will be as
CHAPTER XLVIII.
generations.”
his happiness. The stupidity with which he was favoured by nature must
earliest hours he was destined for his cousin?”
Because he knows a frightful fiend
Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word. After a short pause,
if she does not practise a great deal.”
used to do.”
daughters, said he had heard much of their beauty, but that, in this
for every fish he won, and apologizing if he thought he won too many.
and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that I had difficulty in finding
He paused in hopes of an answer: but his companion was not disposed to
“EAT ME” were beautifully marked in currants. “Well, I’ll eat it,” said
so negligently bestowed.”
And welcome little fishes in
human beings from entering the citadel of nature, and rashly and
and that her father would never consent to the union. My generous friend
expression of brutality was strongly marked in the visage of the
seemed danger of Lydia’s engrossing him entirely, for she was a most
diffidence which marked her little in the habit of giving invitations,
thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at Pemberley, she
her husband was gone to enjoy himself in London or Bath; and with the
live with me in the interchange of kindness, and instead of injury I would
“I can hardly describe to you the effect of these books. They produced
sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence; “and
to pursue him? It is impossible; one might as well try to overtake the
plan to the former, who aided the deceit by quitting his house, under
]
talking to someone in the sea. It was, in fact, a sledge, like that we
exchanged, nothing can be said in her defence, except that she had given
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
fixed was to enter the dwelling when the blind old man should be alone.
and bearing a celestial stamp in all her features.
“Oh, your father, of course, may spare you, if your mother can.
dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should have said too much in
safety of others is committed to my care.
life, which, from being the seat of beauty and strength, had become
smiles, two little dimples appear on each cheek, which are rosy with
“I can offer you no consolation, my friend,” said he;
Heading to Chapter XLIV.                                             318
the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane,
My father had often, during my imprisonment, heard me make the same
seldom been depressed before were now so much affected as to make it
the matter as you do now.”
now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden
It may be easily believed, that however little of novelty could be added
of her innocence as I had. She had been out the whole of the night on
on life, to whom care is new and agony unknown, how can you understand
“If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it.”
_such_ a girl to be my nephew’s sister? Is _her_ husband, who is the son
attention! Were the same fair prospect to arise at present, as had
of science appertaining to natural philosophy. I replied carelessly, and
cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old
William.”
sacred earth on which I kneel, by the shades that wander near me, by the
“Will you walk a little faster?” said a whiting to a snail.
His behaviour to herself could now have had no tolerable motive: he had
“You are,” said the King.
“—_said I could not swim_—” you can’t swim, can you?” he added, turning
saying more that might lead to the mention of her, had he dared. He
assure you, it is much larger than Sir William Lucas’s.”
There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed
Darcy made no answer. He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking up
delay very bitterly; for I longed to see my native town and my beloved
but they are not, I hope, of understanding. My temper I dare not vouch
but which I have never acknowledged. Allowing the case, however, to
tell. Oh, save me! Save me!” I imagined that the monster seized me;
marrying him.”
upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below, and there
subject?”
brother and his wife, who came, as usual, to spend the Christmas at
happiest alternative, been secluded from the world in some distant
she had herself endured on a similar occasion five-and-twenty years ago.
comfort. Her father, captivated by youth and beauty, and that appearance
Chapter 10
recover my senses for a long, long time.
in speaking of Wickham to Mr. Darcy, for now they _do_ appear wholly
was immensely the better for it as an artist._
After amusing himself some time with their curiosity, he thus
ascended some of the higher grounds; whence, in spots where the opening
home. And in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all
cloudless. It surprised me that what before was desert and gloomy
I could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes. But he is a liberal
houses, he unfolded the matter,--to an audience not merely wondering,
and feel, thou wouldst not desire against me a vengeance greater than
called during her absence; Mr. Darcy, only for a few minutes, to take
himself might be; and Elizabeth found that, though in the certain
Mrs. Bennet rang the bell, and Miss Elizabeth was summoned to the
A fever succeeded to this. I lay for two months on the point of death; my
power, by running away.
interrupted croaking was heard only when I approached the shore—often,
her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy, who took
Your affectionate brother,
“My style of writing is very different from yours.”
sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.
sobbing,” she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there
relieved—for her to act in her turn the guardian angel to the
most wished to avoid, and whose very name it was punishment to him to
oppressed me, I wept aloud.
only with admiration, he loved with ardour:—
heard Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud,
power of judgment, a penetration into the causes of things, unequalled
if engaged in earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion,
place quite northward it seems, and there they are to stay, I do not
have exchanged for the most precious wealth the earth can afford. I
to depart, and he had directed his course towards the mainland. I shuddered
left marks in writing on the barks of the trees or cut in stone that guided
these also; but how was that possible when I did not even understand
disposition and talents, would most suit her. His understanding and
was her business to be satisfied--and certainly her temper to be happy;
Elizabeth and my departed friends, who even now prepare for me the
Like one who, on a lonely road,
heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded upstairs. Her mother
would, therefore, do for all. After a slight preparation for good news,
a treasure which would fully reward his toil and hazard.
thought would not fly towards those dear, dear friends whom I love and
“I hope Mr. Bingley will like it”
creatures lest when alone he should come to claim his companion.
been transported to Fairy-land and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted by
turned out, and, by the time they had settled down again, the cook had
there was an officer in Meryton, they would flirt with him; and while
ecstasy. The present season was indeed divine; the flowers of spring
I suppose it doesn’t mind.”
impend over me and my devoted family! Could I enter into a festival
proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview, with the result
will sometimes mar those graces--appreciably, though not quite
difficult to know whether he is most agreeable when talking to his wife,
the wonders of his presentation and knighthood; and his civilities were
your unworthy child from your affection for ever, and leave her to
and vain, and nonsensical, as I knew I had! Oh, how I wanted you!”
lake. I fear that he will become an idler unless we yield the point
expressed on receiving news from my friends. I threw the letter on the
all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited, that there was no enduring
impurities, were he once to enter it; and, depend upon it, Mr. Bingley
“How nicely we are crammed in!”                                      272
before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered
About two hours after this occurrence we heard the ground sea, and before
painting them red. Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she
“In the meanwhile also the black ground was covered with herbage, and
The deep grief which this scene had at first excited quickly gave way to
be written to all their friends at Lambton, with false excuses for their
hall, the dining-room, and all its furniture, were examined and praised;
delight—his Elizabeth, his more than daughter, whom he doted on with
unwholesome. My spirits were elevated by the enchanting appearance of
in at the lodge, her spirits were in a high flutter.
visitors forget their inferior rank. She was not rendered formidable by
I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to
“When _I’m_ a Duchess,” she said to herself, (not in a very hopeful
the dance, when he asked her if she and her sisters did not very often
“No, I believe not.”
themselves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many footsteps,
and her ideas were nearly worn out before the _tête-à-tête_ was over.
greater evil might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all her
Heading to Chapter XLVI.                                             334
unless Charlotte Lucas should happen to call in; and I hope _my_ dinners
assassin of those most innocent victims; they died by my machinations.
she had seen him at Pemberley. But, perhaps, he could not in her
existence I loathed, and it required unceasing attendance and vigilance
seems to suit them!”
The boy protested that she should not; she continued to declare that she
have often observed, that resignation is never so perfect as when the
“I haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about,” said Alice.
an impertinent freedom, rather than a compliment to his aunt; that it
perceived that he tried to suppress his emotion; he placed his hands before
not want them._
the fate—enounced to destroy me. As he went on I felt as if my soul
handsomest of her sex; because there is that in her features which marks
him, so think it no harm to be off. You need not send them word at
when Bingley was gone, Jane constantly sought the same means of relief.
absolutely settled. You will have a charming mother-in-law, indeed, and
Partly from curiosity and partly from idleness, I went into the lecturing
tarts on the table. “Nothing can be clearer than _that_. Then
and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that
“And do not you think him a very handsome gentleman, ma’am?”
a cursory view of the present state of the science and explained many of
all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment she felt that
bed in my clothes, endeavouring to seek a few moments of forgetfulness.
supplication to his Creator. But where was mine? He had abandoned me,
plate with the name “W. RABBIT,” engraved upon it. She went in without
a list, according to his information? He has given in all his debts; I
doomed to see again dear England and the dearer friends that inhabit
apartment might still be there, alive and walking about. I dreaded to
good-humour encouraged; yet, whenever she _did_ speak, she must be
youngest daughters; and her mother, with manners so far from right
proud and unbending disposition and could not bear to live in poverty
Newcastle all the winter, and I dare say there will be some balls, and I
An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards despatched; and already had
hardships into a death which I still dread, for my task is unfulfilled.
enough to drive happiness away.
[Illustration]
not give one an unfavourable idea of his heart. But, to be sure, the
would-be science which could never even step within the threshold of
After walking several miles in a leisurely manner, and too busy to know
poor Alice, “it would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh,
Heading to Chapter XXV.                                              175
till she could be found. Elizabeth could but just _affect_ concern in
inferior the belief of her being proud and reserved. Mrs. Gardiner and
mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely remarking as it went,
Gryphon.
bitterly feel the want of a friend. I have no one near me, gentle yet
expect you to use it. Your father would depend on _your_ resolution and
and whose very existence appeared a part of our own can have departed
The introduction, however, was immediately made; and as she named their
changed as that implies.”
beauty. Mrs. Long said so too, for I asked her whether you did not. And
His father, Miss Bennet, the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men
by the frequent repetition of her name I conjectured that their lovely
and I was determined at once to know everything.”
No; I am not so selfish. Yet, when I am dead, if he should appear, if
large rabbit-hole under the hedge.
genius and mental activity of the Grecians, of the wars and wonderful virtue
wonder that at that moment, instead of venting my sensations in
be done; and if you will give me a sheet of paper it shall be done
unnatural, in comparison of what is so often described as arising on a
rather taller.”
Elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with
hand, Charlotte could not help cautioning her, in a whisper, not to be a
In this manner Lady Catherine talked on till they were at the door of
all opened upon me at once: the information I had obtained was of a
would be of small importance; and her mother was too happy to be quite
they were talking of the Longbourn estate, and resolving to turn herself
speak for itself. He called it, therefore, his duty to step
search the country, parties going in different directions among the
marriage. We have been unfortunate, and recent events have drawn us
affording pasture for a few miserable cows, and oatmeal for its
all the wondrous works with which Nature adorns her chosen dwelling-places.
moment.”
and fretfulness on her side be as long as it could. She counted the days
clothes, the wedding clothes! I will write to my sister Gardiner about
to Scotland. Colonel Forster came yesterday, having left Brighton the
possible.”
“I saw you look at me to-day, Lizzy, when my aunt told us of the present
authors I had studied. The professor stared. “Have you,” he
tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are
bread-and-butter getting so thin—and the twinkling of the tea—”
drop, added, “he is a man of very large property in Derbyshire, I
“You begin to comprehend me, do you?” cried he, turning towards her.
to help anybody to coffee, and then was enraged against herself for
she can have no objection. Come, Kitty, I want you upstairs.” And
“Oh,” said Lydia, stoutly, “I am not afraid; for though I _am_ the
experimentalist, I should advise you to apply to every branch of natural
Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any
“Is he married or single?”
“Oh, shocking!” cried Miss Bingley. “I never heard anything so
Margaret, what comment can I make on the untimely extinction of this
and I ardently desired to become acquainted with it. But I was baffled in
ought to see a feeling and kind friend, they behold only a detestable
The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.
Elizabeth’s collected behaviour, however, soon quieted his emotion; and
very house, in all the felicity which a marriage of true affection could
Carter do not go so often to Miss Watson’s as they did when they first
requited. Their taking her home, and affording her their personal
day for making him the happiest of men.
behind. Yet my heart overflowed with kindness and the love of virtue.
Mr. Wickham’s charge exceedingly shocked her; the more so, as she could
Elizabeth made no answer. She was afraid of talking longer of his
that “metaphor has been exhausted in depicting the perfection of it,
down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr. Darcy had been
conversation. “Are you—are you fond—of—of dogs?” The Mouse did not
proceeding from the serenity of a mind at ease with itself, and kindly
Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.
the affections of a sensitive being and become linked to the chain of
snowy mountains, “the palaces of nature,” were not changed. By
“Why,” said the Gryphon, “you first form into a line along the
*      *      *      *      *      *      *
lamenting it, however, at some length, she had the consolation of
will have the power to interrupt my tranquillity.
falsification of its original sense, it is applied, not to rough and
civilities. Bingley was the principal spokesman, and Miss Bennet the
tranquil voice, suppressing every mark of agitation; then, like a
will not listen to such a sinister voice. Observe how fast we move
[Illustration:
licked it with their forked and destroying tongues.
as ‘I sleep when I breathe’!”
became, by proper attention and management, less irritable, less
this might happen. But through the whole period during which I was the
excitements to his vengeance, that they are not the creations of his
youth could not help owning to his own mind that the captive possessed
believed that, were it not for the inferiority of her connections, he
provision for well-educated young women of small fortune, and, however
infliction. My daily vows rose for revenge—a deep and deadly revenge,
which they were bound, and after her death the woman of the house in
who are so deserving of my love?”
being, as I am, to inherit this estate after the death of your honoured
drawn down a horrible curse upon my head, as mortal as that of crime.
over, and she felt certain it must be really offended. “We won’t talk
his wife at least, if not by himself, such a hope was cherished. The
was a solicitude, an interest, which she felt must ever attach her to
conversation with a woman who was now more than usually insolent and
and the idea instantly occurred to me that I should make use of the
basket aboard a little skiff, sailed out about four miles from the shore.
Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face
Don’t think me angry, however, for I only mean to let you know,
so far. What could your Ladyship propose by it?”
months’ suspense, and enumerating with energy all his good qualities,
growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily
aunt, or his dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose
The Post
to watch for the end of the conference, no sooner saw Elizabeth open the
same unostentatious, but masterly fashion. There is no attempt at the
family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman’s conduct;
Colonel Fitzwilliam, “Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of
was only when I first knew her; for it is many months since I have
which the old man took no notice, until she sobbed audibly; he then
eminent physicians. This she would not hear of; but she was not so
I must find Mr. Gardiner this moment on business that cannot be delayed;
withheld from seeing Jane, she felt a solicitude on the subject which
create a companion for the first creature. He showed unparalleled malignity
certain you will not leave the house without receiving her thanks for
continued, though slowly, to mend; and, in the evening, Elizabeth joined
unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:—
herself, “that could never be; my uncle and aunt would have been lost to
I have an aunt, too, who must not be longer neglected.”
returns of that delightful intercourse we have known, and in the
of two young women travelling post by themselves. It is highly improper.
towards Mr. Wickham. I know not in what manner, under what form of
“You judge very properly,” said Mr. Bennet; “and it is happy for you
Before Elizabeth had time for anything but a blush of surprise, Mrs.
hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off.
renew life where death had apparently devoted the body to corruption.
created. He held up the curtain of the bed; and his eyes, if eyes they
Elizabeth could not oppose such a wish; and from this time Mr. Bingley’s
warm commendation of him, narrowly observed them both. Without supposing
offices that I had seen done by Felix. I afterwards found that these
he said,
a long time concerning the manner in which I should employ it.
and guards this place has a soul more in harmony with man than those who
sail until the month of June; and when shall I return? Ah, dear sister, how
same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling
civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all, and
Mr. Gardiner left them soon after breakfast. The fishing scheme had been
Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew;
the scheme. It should not be said, that the Miss Bennets could not be at
sedulous attention. She longed to bid me hasten my return; a thousand
They are waiting on the shingle—will you come and join the dance?
expressed. Sometimes she struggled with her tears, but when she was
almost taught me to be selfish and overbearing, to care for none beyond
but who understood the common language of Turkey, and departed for
Pemberley, Mr. Darcy!”
“But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in
on the head. Every thought that was devoted to it was an extreme
the case.
repeated after them, that she was endeavouring to learn their language;
silence by inquiring into my occupations more particularly than before.
physician came and prescribed medicines, and the old woman prepared
the moment, been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for
such a matter.”
leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face.
unfortunate and deserted creature, I look around and I have no relation
just said, and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long.”
George Wickham, Esq., to Miss Lydia Bennet,’ without there being a
“Is your master much at Pemberley in the course of the year?”
and emotion, “that you have ever been informed of what may, in a
her life, she will soon be beyond the reach of amendment. Her character
silence of the whole party on the subject seemed to justify her. Mr.
other person.”
“Ah! that accounts for it,” said the Hatter. “He won’t stand beating.
“Nay, if you are so serious about it, I shall consider the matter as
befall her?”
that, had she known nothing of Darcy, she could have borne the dread of
attending it, and occasionally from some peevish allusion of her mother.
luckily, he came back again in ten minutes’ time, and then we all set
upon me, notwithstanding my endeavours to throw them off, with an
imprudent a match it must be. Kitty then owned, with a very natural
and fiend-like malice. Hear him not; call on the names of William,
wishing, expecting my addresses.”
door. He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to anyone else.
depend upon herself, and how far it would be for the happiness of both
“He denies it,” said the King: “leave out that part.”
father’s woe, and the desolation of that late so smiling home all was
privately in town than to pursue their first plan; and even if _he_
but with feelings of peace and gentleness, that will heal, instead of
longer mortified by comparisons between her sisters’ beauty and her own,
necessary--which Elizabeth believed to be lucky for her; or, with a
Elizabeth, “and how much is settled on his side on our sister, we shall
without confiding them, and I trust you will not esteem them
side, and that if it were, it must belong to Mr. Darcy, the superior in
CHISWICK PRESS:--CHARLES WHITTINGHAM AND CO.
There is no danger of Wickham’s marrying Mary King--there’s for you! She
also, my dearest Henry, of life? Two I have already destroyed; other
elder sisters, she said to Elizabeth,--
injury done to Jane and the contempt shown to the rest of her family
was eclipsed by Mr. Bingley and Netherfield.
that the wind was northeast and must have driven me far from the coast from
a toilsome march, I persuaded myself that I was dreaming until night should
that morning should be mentioned, and the request made.
These visions faded when I perused, for the first time, those poets
first recollections. I was their plaything and their idol, and something
The first thing she heard was a general chorus of “There goes Bill!”
“I will go, although she is guilty; and you, Victor, shall accompany
Mr. Wickham’s society was of material service in dispelling the gloom
not in your inclination. You may possibly wonder why all this was not
the poor animals that conveyed me had with incredible toil gained the
do not pretend that my protestations should acquit me; I rest my innocence
such a situation would give pleasure to either, or make either appear to
without tears. What a glorious creature must he have been in the days
consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing him
His daughter attended him with the greatest tenderness, but she saw
advantage to Jane, she seriously hoped he might really soon marry Mr.
consciously humorous kind--in the kind that we laugh with, not at--that
her age and disposition, greater steadiness than first attachments often
delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had been there.
“Now, Kitty, you may cough as much as you choose,” said Mr. Bennet; and,
to discredit it entirely, repeatedly exclaiming, “This must be false!
Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing Elizabeth
Felix were not for me. Miserable, unhappy wretch!
“Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again? At
and encourage him, but I am solitary and abhorred.’
“Were it certain that Lady Catherine would think so,” said Mr. Collins,
Catherine’s carriage made her feel how unequal she was to encounter
Your portion is unhappily so small, that it will in all likelihood undo
person had become emaciated with confinement. Sometimes, on the very
“’Tis so,” said the Duchess: “and the moral of that is—‘Oh, ’tis love,
were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady Catherine and her
some day. Do your sisters play and sing?”
freely. I can recall nothing worse. But the fact is, that we are very
irretrievable, and after much consideration I resolved to return to the
“What _can_ all that green stuff be?” said Alice. “And where _have_ my
“And will you promise me never to enter into such an engagement?”
[Illustration: “Without once opening his lips”
been able to do something for him, and his situation must have been
_may_ fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as
with a minuteness which left beauty entirely behind. He could number the
How mutable are our feelings, and how strange is that clinging love we have
alternately without a moment’s pause. The only things in the kitchen
Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said to
Clerval stretched before me. I gasped for breath, and throwing myself on
astonishment, as she reflected on what had passed, was increased by
possibility of his having really endured such unkindness was enough to
I motioned him to take up the letter, while I walked up and down the
“I have not the smallest objection to explaining them,” said he, as soon
approached with another man; I was surprised, as I knew that he had not
To England, therefore, I was bound, and it was understood that my union
“What do you mean?”
My father was enraptured on finding me freed from the vexations of a
from your sister,--and the other, that I had, in defiance of various
mine and addressed me in French,
they’ll do next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they
independence which was no less his due than his desert. You have done
was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head
“Has she been presented? I do not remember her name among the ladies at
had revived.
manifested towards him. His power and threats were not omitted in my
of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted
sleep. I had been awake the whole of the preceding night, my nerves
journey hither. Your own heart, your own conscience, must tell you why I
me. I imagined that they would be disgusted, until, by my gentle
visible, its broad disk just skirting the horizon and diffusing a
my enemy. But your direction was northwards. You took me on board when my
misfortune to lose him, I have frequently wished to heal the
“I admire the activity of your benevolence,” observed Mary, “but every
“In my youth,” said his father, “I took to the law,
exposure; but I wrote to Mr. Wickham, who left the place immediately,
would rather have cried. Her father had most cruelly mortified her by
But Mr. Gardiner, though he assured her again of his earnest endeavours
“Exactly so,” said the Hatter: “as the things get used up.”
She then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of its contents as far
child; “but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you
began. Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground
“Yes, all of them, I think. They all paint tables, cover screens, and
not unmingled with a little fear, which past misfortunes had impressed,
free from breakers. But these gave place to a heavy swell; I felt sick
of either Lady Catherine or her daughter. Colonel Fitzwilliam had called
convinced, notwithstanding all the evidence. Indeed, who would credit
domestic manners it described, combined with lofty sentiments and
committed the murder, and seeking a more secluded hiding-place, I
dancing at one end of the room.
Ruskin       156. Charing
inducement heightened, which could have led me before to preserve my
this place is not fitting to your fine sensations; come to the hut upon
She burst into tears as she alluded to it, and for a few minutes could
Elizabeth had settled it that Mr. Darcy would bring his sister to visit
Sensibility _has perhaps the fewest out-and-out admirers; but it does
directly invited to join their party, but he declined it, observing that
after it: “I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!”
in company. But really, ma’am, I think it would be very hard upon
to-day. Lydia, my love, ring the bell. I must speak to Hill this
into somewhat of a friendlier nature by the testimony so highly in his
was by good luck, for I am sure she did not listen. I was sometimes
first to listen and to pity, the first to be admired; and in his manner
industrious—painstaking, a workman to execute with perseverance and
person!”
that my sister loved him, or merely from my information last spring?”
soul-inspiriting fled with sleep, and dark melancholy clouded every
Elizabeth was summoned to dinner. To the civil inquiries which then
murder had been described. I was accordingly conducted, by the magistrate
were now lighted up with indignation, now subdued to downcast sorrow
dance.”
generally avoided these, as it was here that the population of the
have so greedily imbibed are a thousand years old and as musty as they
It was on a dreary night of November that I beheld the accomplishment
age rendered him extremely averse to delay. For myself, there was one
His sentence was pronounced, and I could only grieve and be patient. I sat
know in what part of the town he has now concealed himself. If there
did not expect such a compliment.”
abusive without saying anything just; but one cannot be always laughing
Great God! what a scene has just taken place! I am yet dizzy with the
the sound of voices, that induced me to conceal myself under the shade
be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a
performed delightfully. How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?”
the end of the eighteenth century. It is very interesting that we
decline of that mighty empire, of chivalry, Christianity, and kings. I heard
“Sure, it’s an arm, yer honour!” (He pronounced it “arrum.”)
her companion added, “You are too generous to trifle with me. If your
from another place, and it was likely that as I did not appear to know
The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes,
she could still moralize over every morning visit; and as she was no
the young man again, with some tools in his hand, cross the field
“One night during my accustomed visit to the neighbouring wood where I
The power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness to his wondering
Everyone loved Elizabeth. The passionate and almost reverential
and heard the harsh, unfeeling reasoning of these men, my purposed
“Indeed, sir, I have not the least intention of dancing. I entreat you
no answer.
of my wife; even at that moment I knew not that my only remaining
when we are better acquainted----”
its selfishness, receives exhibition. I will not admit that one speech
jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the
of her own was destroyed for the evening, it could not dwell long on her
others; all that his library afforded.
After playing some Italian songs, Miss Bingley varied the charm by a
They must be a great loss to _your_ family.”
of coarse bread, which I purloined, and a cup with which I could drink
assertion of her brother’s being partial to Miss Darcy, she paid no
Matlock, and the Cumberland lakes, resolving to arrive at the completion of
words without being able as yet to understand or apply them, such as _good,
soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding
passion which you alone can gratify. We may not part until you have
repassed, in my memory, my whole life; my quiet happiness while residing
A tingling long-lost sense of pleasure often came across me during this
she would have been the most depraved of human creatures. For the sake
[Illustration]
carriage had not fetched them, she should have known nothing about, if
questions; and I find that the young man forgot to tell you, among his
comedy and farce) is a wonderfully clever study in drab of one kind, and
said he. “How near it may be to _mine_, I cannot pretend to say. _You_
Elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow, and sat down
interruption, “that he or that any man should not be estimated beyond
former studies. It is even possible that the train of my ideas would never
All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over. She would not
information of his near concern in all his cousin’s affairs and whose
“I imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the sake of
several months. During all that time Henry was my only nurse. I
daughter to the town of Lucerne, where he lived unknown and in
me. Filled with dreary imaginations, I passed through many beautiful
heart to be detailed, and he was not more eloquent on the subject of
In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and Jane to make
went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them she heard
she added, “Very well; if it must be so, it must.” And gravely glancing
for Netherfield were got by proxy. Even Elizabeth might have found some
feelings which prevailed on his entering the room; and then, though but
“We were talking of music, madam,” said he, when no longer able to avoid
much more than to any other person in the room.
many people in this neighbourhood, I believe there are few
*      *      *      *      *      *
of sense; and she was quite decided, at last, that he had been partly
“Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer tomorrow, or the
the wiliness of a snake, that I may sting with its venom. Man, you shall
to hope before. I knew enough of your disposition to be certain, that
Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer
entirely destroyed it. You, perhaps, regard her as your sister, without any
in a loud voice, produces a concussion of air sufficient to draw
court was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so
With this resolution I traversed the northern highlands and fixed on one of
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
“It isn’t directed at all,” said the White Rabbit; “in fact, there’s
possession of a most valuable living, had it pleased the gentleman we
distinguished a sledge and the distorted proportions of a well-known
and, except in an occasional glance at Elizabeth, requiring no partner
[Illustration]
to her relations, by acquainting them with the honour which she
temper to avoid a crowd and to attach myself fervently to a few. I was
“Well! I’ve often seen a cat without a grin,” thought Alice; “but a
the fire; then she and the youth went apart into a nook of the cottage,
he had not wished to avoid a certain gentleman here.”
him, when I first saw him, the most miserable of his family. He could
“It did. Bingley is most unaffectedly modest. His diffidence had
and yet cherished a desire of revenge against me, it would be better
fine, and more civil, than she had any notion of finding her. They
“Elizabeth Lavenza.
sister must make the latter probable. If it be so, if I have been misled
very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour,
detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry
compassion? Believe me, Frankenstein, I was benevolent; my soul glowed
science. With a confusion of ideas only to be accounted for by my
herself. I joined them unexpectedly a day or two before the intended
girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all. However, “jury-men”
triumph; clapping my hands, I exclaimed, ‘I too can create desolation;
quitted the cottage that morning, and waited anxiously to discover from
all my other sins. The God of heaven forgive me! Ever since I was
“No, nothing at all.”
liveliest pleasure, and Elizabeth was more and more satisfied with
to become one among those whose names are recorded in story as the
“Give your evidence,” the King repeated angrily, “or I’ll have you
“You know of course that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady Anne Darcy
the day there, and Mrs. Forster promised to have a little dance in the
However little Mr. Darcy might have liked such an address, he contented
weakness. Whether he had died or still lingered in the dungeons of Austria
instantly to Jane, leaving her own and her relations’ behaviour to the
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession
dwelt in a cottage not far from mine; but I was overcome by the sensation
to it; that his chief object was, by delicate attentions, to recommend
open, and I hastened to my father’s house. My first thought was to
minds which hardly any later friend can obtain. They know our
made her mistress of this fortune?”
of dividing them from each other, of exposing one to the censure of the
the canvas, on which he was represented, and fixed his eyes upon
And on the morrow Justine died. Elizabeth’s heart-rending eloquence
indifferent, therefore, to my school-fellows in general; but I united
fearing lest it might seem disrespectful to his memory for me to be
discovered my lovely boy, whom the night before I had seen blooming and
palace were alike hateful. The cup of life was poisoned for ever, and
or never.
“they’d have been ill.”
[Illustration:
Look at that castle which overhangs yon precipice; and that also on the
“Do let us have a little music,” cried Miss Bingley, tired of a
coarse, but it was wholesome; and they procured a sufficiency of it.
who were most anxiously expected, to the credit of their punctuality as
As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see
“It is _not_ Mr. Bingley,” said her husband; “it is a person whom I
his interests by the promise of her hand in marriage so soon as he
Having parted from my friend, I determined to visit some remote spot of
looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with
my rank of life who can afford to marry without some attention to
“Not perhaps of neglecting his own interest. But of every other neglect
good friends,” said I, “will you be so kind as to tell me the name of
brought him from London, and that he was to have a lieutenant’s
spiritless by the ill success of all their endeavours, he had yielded to
neighbourhoods larger. I know we dine with four-and-twenty families.”
of the three others, or relating some anecdote of herself. Mr. Collins
“Treacle,” said a sleepy voice behind her.
forth the kind of relation in which she stood to me—my more than
I enjoyed this scene, and yet my enjoyment was embittered both by the
of the silliest girls in the country. I have suspected it some time, but
been heard in more than one ball-room during this very year from persons
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?
fancy, Lizzy, that obstinacy is the real defect of his character,
her wishes since Jane was sixteen, was now on the point of
occurred between them that could justify the hopes of his sister. On
“Several changes of day and night passed, and the orb of night had
Elizabeth, it is presumed, will not long bear the name of Bennet, after
having somebody at his disposal. I wonder he does not marry, to secure a
birth, as overbearing, as self-centred, as neglectful of good manners,
Elizabeth made no answer; and without attempting to persuade her
our family, learned the duties of a servant, a condition which, in our
strength should not be exhausted by too much exertion. But the
“I should like it very much,” said Alice, “but I haven’t been invited
CHAPTER XIV
exceedingly fair. Lady Lucas began directly to calculate, with more
Catherine; “and pray tell her from me, that she cannot expect to excel,
Ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies
first called, and afterwards dined here? Why, especially, when you
through means which I obtained by stealth, when I was unseen and
her own uncle? If he had not had a family of his own, I and my children
exculpated her who suffered through me.
“Yes, in conjunction with his friend.”
this, and when Justine was twelve years of age, prevailed on her mother
annihilation. My person was hideous and my stature gigantic. What did
“And what are they made of?” Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.
here, _I_ must have been in an error. Your superior knowledge of your
winter has been dreadfully severe, but the spring promises well, and it
being acceptable.”
moment he lay dead at my feet.
“No--I cannot talk of books in a ball-room; my head is always full of
The girls stared at their father. Mrs. Bennet said only, “Nonsense,
Collins, when she draws the moral of Lydia’s fall. I sometimes wish
reverse. There is a mixture of servility and self-importance in his
“You’ve no right to grow _here_,” said the Dormouse.
the green banks interspersed with innumerable flowers, sweet to the
the unhappiness she had brought on her family. If she heard me, it
the party in Lady Catherine’s drawing-room. Her Ladyship received them
With gently smiling jaws!”
It was all very well to say “Drink me,” but the wise little Alice was
and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not. Yet, indeed, I
bring no proof of its injustice. She had never heard of him before his
yourself miserable, but I can make you so wretched that the light of
dark-eyed, hardy little vagrants; this child was thin and very fair. Her
Elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning;
“That’s different from what _I_ used to say when I was a child,” said
speaking, replied thus,--
there was nothing remarkable, and who was entirely engaged in listening
declaration in form. Having resolved to do it without loss of time, as
the playwright has ever been laid upon_ Pride and Prejudice; _and I dare
Catherine was disconcerted, and made no answer; but Lydia, with perfect
regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of Meryton!”
disposed to part from him in good-humour, that, on his making some
very strenuously have opposed it. You ought certainly to forgive them as
power of being agreeable where they chose it; but proud and conceited.
still proceed over the untamed yet obedient element? What can stop the
which she chose to be insensible, gaily continued,--
talking in his sleep, “that ‘I breathe when I sleep’ is the same thing
appeal, but it was excited by her generous interference, and not in
until night fell, when Elizabeth conjectured that he might have
“And quite alone? Have all her friends left her?”
amazed and delighted, endeavoured to kindle the zeal of his deliverer
commencement of my journey the presence of my friend could in no way be
Heading to Chapter VI.                                                27
would have been the last object of her wishes.
for the purpose of concealment, for no more exceptionable purpose. It is
assemblies, and that Mrs. Long has promised to introduce him.”
friend.
chance of it.
your sister is recovered, you shall, if you please, name the very day of
day and night, and my familiarity with them increased that regret which
nineteenth; and no doubt Miss Austen’s principles, as well as her heart,
have no end. Some of my comrades groaned, and my own mind began to
Mr. Darcy bowed.
Jane: “I hope and trust they will yet be happy. His consenting to marry
Duchess: you’d better ask _her_ about it.”
leaves: “I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if—if I’d
card table they must take their chance of these things,--and happily I
what I think.”
being simply dressed. She likes to have the distinction of rank
expeditiously, married in London, than in Scotland.”
the sight of your detested form.”
a scientific pursuit there is continual food for discovery and wonder.
steel aright.
moment I heard the steps of my younger protectors. I had not a moment
ears, proceeded from the throats of the little winged animals who had
hundred a year; but, however, do not speak to Mr. Darcy about it,
instead!--her liveliness had been never worse timed. There was no help
“Not a bit,” said the Caterpillar.
on before, were not to be found. We accordingly rested on a seat until
the pail, which was now partly filled with milk. As she walked along,
In this retreat I devoted the morning to labour; but in the evening,
But here were books, and here were men who had penetrated deeper and knew
unaffectedly civil in his answer, and forced his younger sister to be
on his countenance, but he endeavoured to welcome me cheerfully; and,
Putting away the letter immediately, and forcing a smile, she said,--
“What do you mean, Hill? We have heard nothing from town.”
“I have copies of these letters, for I found means, during my residence
In an evil hour I subscribed to a lie; and now only am I truly
especially on Lydia’s side, but nothing to give him any alarm. I am so
insufferable. Let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied.”
She left me, and I continued some time walking up and down the passages
lines, merely mentioning the day on which I should expect you. But
was reserved for vengeance. The laughter died away, when a well-known
found out his brother, and persuaded him to come to Gracechurch Street.
the happiness of seeing you; and though this gentleman dislikes the
Mr. Darcy drew his chair a little towards her, and said, “_You_ cannot
rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high).
Mrs. Bennet was really in a most pitiable state. The very mention of
“You shall have it in a few words. Miss Bingley sees that her brother is
“Delighted to see their dear friend again”                           108
Lizzy, you look as if you did not enjoy it. You are not going to be
them.
been prepared for my approach. But I did not believe my errors to be
system of science had been introduced which possessed much greater powers
For a long time I was their only care. My mother had much desired to have a
corpse of some person who had been drowned and was thrown on shore by the
Bingley’s good-humour was overcome, and he proceeded so far as to _talk_
though their kindness to Jane, such as it was, had a value, as arising,
the admiration of all who knew her, after which she again lived in my
petition rejected. She assured him that no one intended to play, and the
in the house by the end of next week.”
very little. One cannot know what a man really is by the end of a
and the gay, and dazzling with scarlet; and, to complete the view, she
a studier of character. It must be an amusing study.”
anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something; and she heard
“That’s right!” shouted the Queen. “Can you play croquet?”
Mary had neither genius nor taste; and though vanity had given her
and thought he had done it; but when the living fell, it was given
When Lady Catherine and her daughter had played as long as they chose,
“I’m very sorry you’ve been annoyed,” said Alice, who was beginning to
little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of either merit
Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates;
being impelled by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by reason, by
neighbouring fair. All was silent in and around the cottage; it was an
some among us to whom a ball would be rather a punishment than a
money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there.” Then showing
thing!” said the Queen, “and take this young lady to see the Mock
family party at Pemberley.
painter. To make this latter observation quite exact we must not use the
as to think it inevitable, and even repeatedly to say, in an ill-natured
“but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing. They have
“Anything you like,” said the Footman, and began whistling.
in the pool, “and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her
one thousand pounds. His own father did not long survive mine; and
the toils, destroying the objects that obstructed me and ranging
torches; for I could not rest, when I thought that my sweet boy had
recollect without passion my reveries while the work was incomplete. I trod
head is so bewildered that I cannot answer for being coherent. Dearest
of, that I may have it to-morrow.”
cottagers and farmhouse servants to be. Yet she was meanly dressed, a
finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous
tolerable ease, and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any
particulars; and I only suspected it to be Bingley from believing him
master, who was coming down in a day or two, to shoot there for several
personal farewell to the country I had so long inhabited. I acceded
We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from Strasburgh to
As the circumstances of his marriage illustrate his character, I cannot
had not; and she, who in all probability was to become a thinking and
The untaught peasant beheld the elements around him and was acquainted
to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it was also very inconvenient
conveyed him and his five cousins at a suitable hour to Meryton; and the
snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it, and kept doubling
manner, I shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it
favourable, that when they parted at night, she would have felt almost
was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own
So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first
credit; but I am an idle fellow; and though I have not many, I have more
“Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said—” the Hatter went on, looking
Elizabeth now began to revive. But not long was the interval of
I write a few lines in haste to say that I am safe—and well advanced
accomplishment, and her thoughts and her words ran wholly on those
you don’t know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.) “Up, lazy
Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was
should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of masters.”
quite as their own, I dare say, whenever that happens.”
delight in vexing me. You have no compassion on my poor nerves.”
“The gentlemen accompanied him”                                      213
I replied in the affirmative. “Every minute,” continued M. Krempe with
temper, she could not contribute much to my felicity.”
perceived, as the shape came nearer (sight tremendous and abhorred!)
label, with the words “DRINK ME,” beautifully printed on it in large
me and think of me as of one unjustly condemned, I am resigned to the
philosophy. To be sure, it would have been more for the advantage of
because I have reason to expect an addition to our family party.”
Kitty is slight and delicate, and Mary studies so much that her hours of
“Most willingly.”
two to visit his relations. She had even condescended to advise him to
Elizabeth asked questions in vain; Maria would tell her nothing more;
countenance expressed real security. Such a circumstance could only
her courtesy and address of his friend.
kind.”
But the attention of every lady was soon caught by a young man, whom
were gently agitated by the wind; the night was nearly dark, and the
spite of all her coaxing.
“This account then is what he has received from Mr. Darcy. I am
yet one of the first results of those sympathies for which the dæmon
darkness a sudden light broke in upon me—a light so brilliant and
of yours.’”
which yesterday had produced. But above all, above respect and esteem,
destruction, and you will anxiously await my return. Years will pass, and
Mr. Bingley’s love?”
darkness and cast my basket into the sea; I listened to the gurgling sound
were returned, and to lament over his absence from the Netherfield ball.
that, in point of true beauty, Miss de Bourgh is far superior to the
counsellors and syndics, and my father had filled several public
able to tell what Bingley may tell in a much more agreeable manner
quadrille table at Rosings, in the absence of more eligible visitors.
What then became of me? I know not; I lost sensation, and chains and
Ever since my recovery from the fever, I had been in the custom of taking
created should perpetrate some new wickedness. I had an obscure feeling
quite through, in a very close hand. The envelope itself was likewise
not by, when I told mamma, and the others, all about it. Are not you
The magistrate appeared at first perfectly incredulous, but as I continued
myriad, trivial, unforced strokes build up the picture like magic.
“Are you content now?” said the Caterpillar.
my home, my mother had said playfully, “I have a pretty present for my
intended civility, and they were invited and engaged to dine at
recommended himself to Georgiana, whose affectionate heart retained a
She rated his abilities much higher than any of the others: there was a
at the sight of each other. Mrs. Collins welcomed her friend with the
conversations in the final chapters so frigid as they might have looked
Turtle’s heavy sobs.
author, and afterwards of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus. I read and
that could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much
completely in your way; and if the second, I can admire you much better
indeed, without much graciousness, but Mrs. Bennet was satisfied, and
convenient pause turned to him with an arch smile, and said,--
much attention in the whole course of his life.
murdered child had been afterwards found. The woman asked her what she
between the two gentlemen; but though Jane would have defended either or
“The old man had, in the meantime, been pensive, but on the appearance
and a winning mildness to her manners, which had before been remarkable
Clerval. He came. Alas, how great was the contrast between us! He
of the room, as to make him play as unsuccessfully as herself.
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age as
cause of all this?”
circuit; which brought them again, after some time, in a descent among
the helpless; I have strangled the innocent as they slept and grasped to
“Upon my word,” said her Ladyship, “you give your opinion very decidedly
made me ashamed) any of the enthusiasm which stimulated my intended
to be as much a debt of gratitude to _him_ as of affection to myself.”
themselves. The one mis-sent must be first attended to; it had been
and condemned them to a perpetual exile from their native country.
countenance. His sister was less delicate, and directed her eye towards
as false and deceitful as he is insinuating.”
undertaking. It is impossible to communicate to you a conception of
Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the Bennets
before her uncle and aunt’s arrival. But they did pass away, and Mr. and
acquainted with any of its inhabitants. The winter, however, was spent
daughter!”
death-warrant, be sure that you are yourself safe.”
down her flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad
indebted to his brother; but was too angry with Lydia to send any
soul have been drunk up by the interest for my guest which this tale
afforded by these wonderful regions seem still to have the power of
behaviour, from his indolence and the little attention he has ever
De Bourgh she derived this comfort for Miss Bingley, that he might have
took occasion to ask her, when unattended to by any of the rest, whether
chief of it was overheard by Mr. Darcy, who sat opposite to them. Her
judges had rather that ten innocent should suffer than that one guilty
Elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase, and listened with
“Turn a somersault in the sea!” cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly
her wonderful Adventures, till she too began dreaming after a fashion,
being whom I myself had formed, and endued with life, had met me at
benefactor—”
akin to death, of the house of mourning and to rush into the thick of
The Queen smiled and passed on.
“Mrs. Bennet and her two youngest girls”                              53
[Illustration:
me to love the aspect of nature, and the cheerful faces of children.
given, to remind her of her post. There was now employment for the whole
refreshment: but Lady Catherine very resolutely, and not very politely,
but it requires my own. Do not think that I shall be slow to perform this
decent-looking rooms, walked on.
his fan and gloves—that is, if I can find them.” As she said this, she
answer, and took her place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which
offered you the sincere congratulations of Mrs. Collins and myself on
advanced. I looked towards its completion with a tremulous and eager
“True,” said Mr. Bennet; “but it is a comfort to think that, whatever of
the temper of her soul, now accustomed to grand ideas and a noble
be; though, when the letters were read, Elizabeth felt that Charlotte
began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room. Her manners were
your long silence.”
Collins said anything of which his wife might reasonably be ashamed,
lower orders, being neither so poor nor so despised, their manners are
bed for several days. During this interval, one of the servants,
beholding me? Agatha fainted, and Safie, unable to attend to her
Mrs. Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found
Agatha entered. Who can describe their horror and consternation on
been said, that I would not lead them farther north if they strenuously
startled when she heard her voice close to her ear. “You’re thinking
few affections, clings more earnestly to those that remain. Cursed, cursed
and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity. Mr. Collins’s present
“Such very superior dancing is not often seen”                       118
“Be not alarmed, madam, on receiving this letter, by the apprehension of
tried, therefore, to dress my food in the same manner, placing it on
much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to the
a dream, in a prison, stretched on a wretched bed, surrounded by
when I first discovered that a pleasant sound, which often saluted my
long before the mind can persuade itself that she whom we saw every day
was, “Why is a raven like a writing-desk?”
still more as one of the executors of my father’s will, has been
“Not _quite_ right, I’m afraid,” said Alice, timidly; “some of the
and truth in a few short sentences.
love, is to be torn away by even a worse fate. If she is condemned, I
[Illustration:
The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into a
recognised, reminded me of days gone by, and were associated with the
While they were dressing, he came two or three times to their different
“Why, I must confess that I love him better than I do Bingley. I am
know, when once they get together, there is no end of it. Well, I was so
French government; he had consequently hired a vessel to convey him to
occupations of Agatha were finished, the Arabian sat at the feet of the
connubial felicity really was. An union of a different tendency, and
short silence.
questions concerning the route which the dæmon, as he called him, had
“The officers of the ----shire”
unquenched. He is dead who called me into being; and when I shall be no
it; and though she would not place herself as his principal inducement,
thankful am I, that we never let them know what has been said against
“There were some very strong objections against the lady,” were Colonel
satisfaction she had promised herself. It was consequently necessary to
“Mary Ann! Mary Ann!” said the voice. “Fetch me my gloves this moment!”
colour. It was many months since she had mentioned his name to
“Oh, don’t bother _me_,” said the Duchess; “I never could abide
“Of course they were,” said the Dormouse; “—well in.”
doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of her notice when
well that Mr. Darcy is not in the least to blame; that he cannot bear
“It will be _her_ turn soon to be teased,” said Miss Lucas. “I am going
passed in this manner, during which I paid no visit to Geneva, but was
enthusiastic frenzy had blinded me to the horror of my employment; my
create such another as I have been. I shall die. I shall no longer feel the
the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by _him_. Their eyes
her sense; and she could no more bear that Mr. Darcy should hear the
causes of life, we must first have recourse to death. I became
Elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied, “Yes, you know enough of
called out, “Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! _I’ll_ soon make
[Illustration]
you throw them, and it’ll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts
“Well, and what news does it bring--good or bad?”
be mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood.” My
good-humour and kindness. Mr. Darcy said very little, and Mr. Hurst
character, it may be easily believed that the happy spirits which had
struck her, that _she_ was selected from among her sisters as worthy of
The Bennets were engaged to dine with the Lucases; and again, during the
She expressed her gratitude again, but it was too painful a subject to
that did not sneeze, were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting
on her face, seemed to catch her words with no less resentment than
Jane’s disappointment had, in fact, been the work of her nearest
Omnipotence—and I ceased to fear or to bend before any being less
of them good for anything. Take your choice, but you must be satisfied
My life might have been passed in ease and luxury, but I preferred glory to
with fervour the names of the most distinguished discoverers. He then took
“you shouldn’t have put it in with the bread-knife.”
itself, but soothing inasmuch as it supposed the safety of my friends.
high and imposing manners, and sees him only as he chooses to be seen.”
“Indeed, Mr. Bennet,” said she, “it is very hard to think that Charlotte
food for the worm. Now I was led to examine the cause and progress of
have somebody who thinks of those things. Where shall you change horses?
retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected
Miss Lucas was odious to her. As her successor in that house, she
respectable, unless you truly esteemed your husband, unless you looked
dear, _you_ must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my
Elizabeth looked at Darcy, to see how cordially he assented to his
with the Turk that if the latter should find a favourable opportunity
And what, Margaret, will be the state of your mind? You will not hear of my
or evil must be done by him! Every idea that had been brought forward by
been just as likely to marry _her_, had she been his relation.
cherished hope, it is true, but it vanished when I beheld my person
to be seen. The rooms were lofty and handsome, and their furniture
high and snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries, but I saw no
We were not allowed to converse for any length of time, for the
when hungry; they were dressed in excellent clothes; and, still more,
of offering any reply. I revolved rapidly in my mind a multitude of
kinder than towards myself.”
I uncovered it, and a gentle breeze quickly fanned it into a flame. I
or under what misrepresentation can you here impose upon others?”
going thither; but Charlotte, she soon found, was depending on the
there in much estimation; for though the chief of his concerns with the
ourselves, and came to town with the resolution of hunting for
waved their branches above me; now and then the sweet voice of a bird
I determined to quit my island at the expiration of two days.
will take care to get good partners for them all.”
without attending to her, “if we had the door between us. For instance,
on better.”
the British Court of its brightest ornament. Her Ladyship seemed pleased
from all the others when they sat down to table. She had only to say in
endeavoured to recollect what were my duties with regard to this destroyer.
you wonder that these men were moved? They looked at one another and were
“The twinkling of the _what?_” said the King.
that his flight was rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and
Ingolstadt; and I confess to you, my friend, that when I saw you last
How all this will terminate, I know not, but I had rather die than
gentlemanlike set and the best of them were of the present party; but
them threw a real gloom over their domestic circle; and, though Kitty
addressing nobody in particular. “She’d soon fetch it back!”
the companions of our childhood always possess a certain power over our
propensity to tease and the sharpness of her tongue. Elizabeth can give
experienced many hardships of that nature. But in matters of greater
as much as possible, that I might not debar him from the pleasures
ever. He is now, perhaps, sorry for what he has done, and anxious to
indeed but a passing trance, that only made me feel with renewed
“He might bite,” Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious
dogs, pass on towards the north, at the distance of half a mile; a
Upon this information, they instantly passed through the hall once more,
“I may thank you, Eliza, for this piece of civility. Mr. Darcy would
yet learnt to condemn them.--With respect to that other, more weighty
afterwards united to my nephew--my own nephew, Mr. Darcy. Though I
chief of the day, was Miss Lucas so kind as to listen to Mr. Collins.
The die is cast; I have consented to return if we are not destroyed.
of Geneva, which I should soon visit, of Elizabeth and Ernest; but
“I daresay you believed it; but I am by no means convinced that you
with slow pace is advancing down from the summit of the hills to
persuade ourselves to say the word “Farewell!” It was said, and we
remain quietly in my hovel, watching and endeavouring to discover the
functions on this occasion.”
breach: but, for some time, I was kept back by my own doubts,
expression. In a fortnight they were to go, and once gone, she hoped
departure was therefore fixed at an early date, but before the day
Shall you like to have such a brother?”
Pemberley was now Georgiana’s home; and the attachment of the sisters
sisters. We shall have no peace at Longbourn if Lydia does not go to
“But I was embarrassed.”
more than equivalent to the happiness of being his wife, I advise you,
interesting creature: his eyes have generally an expression of
fell into violent hysterics and kept her bed for several days. The
supposed about Mr. Bingley. We may as well wait, perhaps, till the
for very cogent reasons, to remain in the secrecy which Lydia seems to
“You used us abominably ill,” answered Mrs. Hurst, “running away without
good, good news to my sister Philips. And as I come back, I can call on
remained with no very cordial feelings towards him. She told the story,
door, she found she had forgotten the little golden key, and when she
beauties of his native country and asked us if those were not sufficient
those inquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew what
ladies. I have more than once observed to Lady Catherine, that her
“covering a screen”
application to her nephew; and how he might take a similar
been for her own perverseness. He made her an offer in this very room,
_To Mrs. Saville, England._
the light of the moon the dæmon at the casement. A ghastly grin
and majestic scenes, but my eyes were fixed and unobserving. I could
hardly that I felt the palpitation of every artery; at others, I nearly
more divine being than I had ever beheld or imagined; his character
got pretty near the truth. She directly replied,--
of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me, because you have
and persuade you to promise what I so ardently desire.”
I am, the soothing voice of my Elizabeth and the conversation of
would be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige him to talk,
believe me to be if I disclosed the object of my suspicions? I
feelings and loved the gentle manners and amiable qualities of my
end of a long concerto, was glad to purchase praise and gratitude by
confide in him. He generously imputed the whole to his mistaken
valuable qualities, though at first unwillingly admitted, had for some
Bennet, and which she never failed to contradict as a most scandalous
appears to do so much credit to; but he gave up everything to be of use
“Who _are_ you talking to?” said the King, going up to Alice, and
cries to the voice of the shepherd boy—and the sneeze of the baby, the
misfortunes, you may stifle, by the word _honour_, all hope of that
Heading to Chapter XIII.                                              78
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
from want. This preservative she had now obtained; and at the age of
he then resided. She hesitated some time, but at length she formed her
gallantry, from the idea it suggested of something more. It now first
I am by birth a Genevese, and my family is one of the most
the trembling sensation, half pleasurable and half fearful, with which
which filled me with fear and agitation. During my absence I should
still glimmers in his eyes, but he is exhausted, and when suddenly
Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into
to be prepared for me (wretched indeed was the best); and it was he who
that it was merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had
anew.”
always prevent his exposing the son.
destroyer of my family, and that I required him to exert his whole
heavens; they have discovered how the blood circulates, and the nature of
him before. Mr. what’s his name--that tall, proud man.”
excessively deceived in him? Oh no.”
dutifully given, but it could not be kept without difficulty; for the
tell me what new scene of death has been acted, and whose murder I am
“If, therefore, an excuse for not keeping his promise should come to his
unfortunate; I and my family have been condemned, although innocent;
troubled by the winds, their tumult is but as the play of a lively
“I don’t know of any that do,” Alice said very politely, feeling quite
“That is a question which Mr. Darcy only can answer.”
my motions, I entreat you; leave me to peace and solitude for a short
the smile that plays upon the lips, although it may be deemed a
silent till they reached the house. Their father then went to the
They travelled as expeditiously as possible; and sleeping one night on
them ill.”
where I could conceal the horrid anguish that possessed me. Despair!
Mr. Darcy replied, with great intrepidity,--
feelings had not found an imaginary gratification, the appearance of
Gardiner, meanwhile, having settled his account at the inn, nothing
towards me from the other end of the street. As it drew nearer I observed
for several hours, this sudden certainty of life rushed like a flood of
passionate enthusiasm for, the dangerous mysteries of ocean to that
To complete the favourable impression, she then told him what Mr. Darcy
Our conversations are not always confined to his own history and
your Majesty?” he asked.
beyond a doubt: there cannot be two opinions on that point.’”
bestow and that she whose resemblance I contemplated would, in
“Dawson”
through the cottage, dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the
near which it stood.
her nieces. She shared in their attendance on Mrs. Bennet, and was a
She paused, weeping, and then continued, “I thought with horror, my
would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how she would
your opinion. I was never more annoyed! The insipidity, and yet the
Let me know everything that I am to know without delay. Will you tell me
like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!”
would hardly think a month’s ablution enough to cleanse him from its
that were beginning to rise. Suddenly a heavy storm of rain descended.
lady.”
“Oh, my dear Lydia,” she cried, “when shall we meet again?”
presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants, and I also
collected in one individual! Nor was Darcy’s vindication, though
“I must say also a few words to you, my dear cousin, of little darling
them with pleasure before. Her answer, therefore, was not propitious, at
and destroyed as a beast of prey. But I perceive your thoughts; you do not
Before this I was not unacquainted with the more obvious laws of
turned, and Elizabeth was the happy woman by whom he finally seated
time when I learn music.”
have been all round the park. A low phaeton with a nice little pair
happy; let me feel gratitude towards you for one benefit! Let me see that I
“Not at all,” was her answer; “but, depend upon it, he means to be
sentences out of a pulpit, I recollected what he had said of M.
Robert Walton
waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further:
Mary? For you are a young lady of deep reflection, I know, and read
with the rest of the party. She now lost every expectation of pleasure.
plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what
master and his sister.
whom it was all aimed, was still inflexibly studious. In the
mind,” said Alice: “three inches is such a wretched height to be.”
interest, but nothing to justify inquiry.
unrestrained wonder; and when at last Mr. Collins allowed him to speak,
crimes and his misfortunes. But in the detail which he gave you of them
expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere.
motives which influenced their actions.
a charming young man, and so rich, and living but three miles from them,
Mr. Darcy with a very expressive smile. Elizabeth, for the sake of
had run away to hide himself, and that he vainly sought for him, and
that ever made herself and her family ridiculous;--a flirt, too, in the
calm and serene joy. I welcomed my friend, therefore, in the most cordial
is really headstrong and foolish, I know not whether she would
reap the fruits of her own heinous offence.
said on the subject.”
made a great difference in the country, and every day was adding to the
when she was startled by a ring at the door, the certain signal of a
mind so occupied, she might have forgotten where she was. Reflection
Mr. Collins’s letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her
will have fled, for I shall meet with sympathy! My life will flow quietly
“I have answered three questions, and that is enough,”
“I am much obliged to your Ladyship for your kind invitation,” replied
her authority proceeded; but it was not in her power to give any
who was to all appearance dead. Their first supposition was that it was the
Why did I not die? More miserable than man ever was before, why did I not
“But people themselves alter so much, that there is something new to be
possessed no money, no friends, no kind of property. I was, besides,
unless they are first invited to Longbourn; and I understand from Mrs.
imputed to my getting wet through yesterday. My kind friends will
almost every day. She not unfrequently stopped at the Parsonage, and had
Wickham’s character.”
Wednesday or Thursday. Will you be very angry with me, my dear
“How can you be so silly,” cried her mother, “as to think of such a
writhed under his words, yet dared not exhibit the pain I felt.
beloved, awake!’
their duties towards me. With this deep consciousness of what they owed
pause, added,--
behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the
all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has something more of
exhibited if his creatress had not adjusted so artfully to him the
at the same time she gently deplored her own fate.
“If you consent, neither you nor any other human being shall ever see
she heard a little animal (she couldn’t guess of what sort it was)
to herself, “if one only knew the right way to change them—” when she
“My thoughts now became more active, and I longed to discover the
displayed in their most terrific guise. Still, as I ascended higher,
either. Now, seriously, what have you ever known of self-denial and
ached acutely. Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment, nor were
wide ocean, nor even here in Archangel, among merchants and seamen. Yet
describe a sorrow which all have felt, and must feel? The time at
The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates. “What are
for vivacity. Nor was her residence at her mother’s house of a nature
the plan of life he had marked out for himself. Resolved to pursue no
feared most to fail, she was most sure of success, for those to whom
Collins. Mr. Collins is really_ great; _far greater than anything Addison
magnificent Mont Blanc, raised itself from the surrounding _aiguilles_,
Fitzwilliam. “I should like to know how he behaves among strangers.”
your creation, come on, then, that I may extinguish the spark which I
by any sigh of repentance; and rather looked with wonder at her friend,
earnestly, “You are all mistaken; I know the murderer. Justine, poor,
indifference, continued to express her admiration of Captain Carter, and
and exceedingly troublesome. She hated having visitors in the house
“It was morning when I awoke, and my first care was to visit the fire.
]
She had never perceived, while the regiment was in Hertfordshire, that
of the earth was hard and chill, and bare, and I found no shelter. Oh,
“I am not likely to leave Kent for some time. Promise me, therefore, to
“Indeed I am. I shall entreat his pardon for not having done it earlier.
[Illustration:
though still sobbing a little now and then, “we went to school in the
placing his conduct in the noblest light, seemed most improbable. She
when he looked at her. She stood several minutes before the picture, in
open; it breathed hard, and a convulsive motion agitated its limbs.
“I can much more easily believe Mr. Bingley’s being imposed on than that
miniatures, over the mantel-piece. Her aunt asked her, smilingly, how
“Dear Lizzy!”
particulars immediately following of Wickham’s resigning all pretensions
happiness that I might retain strength to fulfil my pilgrimage. Deprived of
overflowed, that I wished to be participated. But now that virtue has
been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very
abject than that of the blind mole or harmless worm. For a long time I
youngest, I’m the tallest.”
I returned home not disappointed, for I have said that I had long
her brother mentioning a ball to Miss Bennet, she turned suddenly
“And what is your success?”
I had no more idea of being married till I came back again! though I
may be very certain that I shall avail myself of it as soon as
in prison, and although I was still weak and in continual danger of a
“Why, indeed, he does seem to have had some filial scruples on that
met. Elizabeth, however astonished, was at least more prepared for an
beloved sister, the sickening failing of your heart-felt expectations is,
unjust accusations accompanying her rejection. He who, she had been
“Yes, there can; for mine is totally different. Will you hear it?”
it were to announce the approach of the demoniacal corpse to which I
their attachment; but as it was a matter of confidence, one cannot
Bingley’s large fortune, the mention of which gave animation to their
without one of her sisters.
not be! If you were sensible of your own good, you would not wish to
both, had they appeared to be wrong, she could no more explain such
had!”
“Are you better now, sir?” said she.
Seat, St. Bernard’s Well, and the Pentland Hills, compensated him for
disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared with his
analysis and application were intense; by the union of these qualities I
pool as it went.
should be completed.
these personages, and thus at once achieve a notable mating and soothe
of a crime which none but the devil himself could have perpetrated.
She busied herself with following the aerial creations of the poets;
“Mr. Collins,” said she, “speaks highly both of Lady Catherine and her
valley is more wonderful and sublime, but not so beautiful and
manner the bitterness and horror of my feelings.
refrained from the hint; but she had merely intended to discompose
self-command, to Miss Lucas. “_You_ were Mr. Bingley’s first choice.”
throbbings and relieve me from the mighty weight of anguish that bears
an end to cards, and gave the rest of the ladies their share of Mr.
conversation with Mr. Gardiner. Elizabeth could not but be pleased,
to look again; her uncle and aunt stopped also; and while the former was
utter a syllable. Nor was it under many, many minutes, that she could
Soon after we heard that the poor victim had expressed a desire to see my
“I do assure you, sir, that I have no pretensions whatever to that kind
“I am exceedingly gratified,” said Bingley, “by your converting what my
library to write, and the girls walked into the breakfast-room.
was not all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express
“Oh, I am not at all afraid of her dying. People do not die of little
“His guilt and his descent appear, by your account, to be the same,”
man! His eyes wandered in vacancy, for they had lost their charm and their
“But I’m _not_ a serpent, I tell you!” said Alice. “I’m a—I’m a—”
on the door being opened, I perceived Henry Clerval, who, on seeing me,
blame on them. Our distress, my dear Lizzy, is very great. My father and
Accordingly, when she retired at night, she asked the chambermaid
Sometimes I could cope with the sullen despair that overwhelmed me, but
to have force enough to attend, now roused himself; his eyes sparkled,
no cheerful humour. Mr. Darcy was almost as far from her as the table
accepted any refreshment, seemed to do it only for the sake of finding
before you came back. Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare.
of us consistent; and in his behaviour to me there were stronger
days or imaginary evils; at least they were remote and more familiar to
mountains, whose summits were hid in the uniform clouds, while rain
died by my hands.”
elsewhere?”
side, from the same noble line; and, on the father’s, from respectable,
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
determination. Taking with her some jewels that belonged to her and a
concern, and observe her in compassionate silence. At length she spoke
First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (“the exact
though she could not look she could listen; and he told her of feelings
as Miss Bingley, vexed and disappointed, dared not approach nearer to
“Of music! Then pray speak aloud. It is of all subjects my delight. I
before. He and his sisters were well, I hope, when you left London?”
While the family were in this confusion, Charlotte Lucas came to spend
prepared for the worst, there is no occasion to look on it as certain.
months in the heaths of England and among the deserts of Scotland. I have
aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.
hanging woods, to the edge of the water, and one of its narrowest parts.
“I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley’s sincerity,” said Elizabeth warmly,
dropped all her resentment; was fonder than ever of Georgiana, almost as
“I cannot pretend to be sorry,” said Wickham, after a short
Charlotte had any regard for him, I should only think worse of her
it utterly impossible.
and have no design of marrying, do not let us give the matter over as
“Of course twinkling begins with a T!” said the King sharply. “Do you
“No, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems likely to
the royal children, and everybody else.
them, they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the
We were immured in ice and should probably never escape, but they
tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in
slavery for ever.
as we glided down the stream. Even I, depressed in mind, and my spirits
senseless curiosity lead you? Would you also create for yourself and the
and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden, or in
sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before they
not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg for a partner.”
and the kind of half-expectation which Mrs. Gardiner had formed, of
figures of Mr. Bennet and of Lady Catherine de Bourgh. The latter, like
“Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not treat
he applied to me again by letter for the presentation. His
character she had no reason to question. At one time she had almost
the sandy plain and prayed for death. But revenge kept me alive; I dared
“She can’t explain it,” said the Gryphon hastily. “Go on with the next
property of some one or other of their daughters.
directly to her favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr. Darcy’s
and four times seven is—oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that
Heading to List of Illustrations                                     xxv
“I was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second time. I
No human being could have passed a happier childhood than myself. My
made by the spirit of preservation to avert the storm that was even
But I have one want which I have never yet been able to satisfy, and the
names to be mentioned in your hearing.’ _That_ is his notion of
was really vexed that her mother should be always giving him such an
“I am perfectly ready, I assure you, to keep my engagement; and, when
Then, turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist at
for a moment in silence, she said, very stiffly, to Elizabeth,--
Jane had already written a few lines to her sister, to announce their
anguish, and every word that I spoke in allusion to it caused my lips
especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of
No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a
others; and between her and Mrs. Gardiner, with occasional help from
are, undoubtedly, many who could not say the same; but, thanks to Lady
marrying early, nor was it until the decline of life that he became a
should have died on the coffin of Henry.”
balanced with it, and I therefore, with a contented and even cheerful
“Some time elapsed before I learned the history of my friends. It was
Miss Bingley’s letter arrived, and put an end to doubt. The very first
facts which he relates soon changed this feeling into enthusiasm. A new
wedding-night.”
taste, was very fond of fishing, and was so much engaged in watching the
only on learning that the ladies of the family intended a visit to
take us all there for the summer! It would be such a delicious scheme,
embarrassment, he turned to her again, and said in the gentlest of
“No, indeed, I did not. I knew nothing at all of Lady Catherine’s
Alice felt dreadfully puzzled, The Hatter’s remark seemed to have no
it was almost motionless, for the winds were hushed, and all nature
“And who are _these?_” said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners
went apart and appeared to weep. I saw no cause for their unhappiness,
insensibility.”
you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less
took to disguise yourself, your feelings were always noble and just; and
be an unanswerable argument with his amiable Charlotte to name an early
knowledge. She coloured as she spoke; but neither that, nor anything
as well to be silent. Only let me assure you, my dear Miss Elizabeth,
must be reserved for solitary hours: whenever she was alone, she gave
I will not doubt that it was set there by the spirits that I had
her, I would not have put up with it. Well, my comfort is, I am sure
Bingley, which of course was to be inferior only to his own, he
supplied with coffee and muffin.
although variable voice.
subject was pursued no further, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went
with less perplexity. Her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what
Not all that Mrs. Bennet, however, with the assistance of her five
Improve his shining tail,
certainly did _not_, being made entirely of cardboard.)
novels. To some the delightful freshness and humour of_ Northanger
“All right,” said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly,
for my letters with feverish impatience; if they were delayed I was
brought back, with great satisfaction, a message from her Ladyship,
ten o’clock and the impossibility of remaining on the lake after that
here till I’m somebody else’—but, oh dear!” cried Alice, with a sudden
Here she was interrupted again. Mr. Bennet protested against any
only consider what he must have suffered. Such a disappointment! and
When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham’s departure, she found little
[Illustration]
both sides is splendid. They are destined for each other by the voice of
talking over their route the evening before, Mrs. Gardiner expressed an
hastened towards the deeper parts of the wood. I followed speedily, I
and after having destroyed every vestige of cultivation in the garden,
myself; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
required. A thousand things may arise in six months.”
You will not, I hope, consider me as showing any disrespect to your
and that thought only had to me the reality of life.
“You can _now_ have nothing further to say,” she resentfully answered.
the elopement, and his utterances are the most acutely delightful in the
that my path lay through a deep wood, I ventured to continue my journey
highest opinion of him, and hoping the church would be his profession,
“Hunsford,” and “Lady Catherine de Bourgh.” It vexed her to see him
home half a day before they were in pursuit of the officers. There was
Bingley. Vain indeed must be all her attentions, vain and useless her
good of everybody’s character and make it still better, and say nothing
“If everybody minded their own business,” the Duchess said in a hoarse
gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers; but Mrs.
horrors and rendered mine indelible. I sickened as I read. ‘Hateful
possess, in this same gallery, what may be called a spoiled first
Frankenstein discovered that I made notes concerning his history; he asked
if anything had been heard concerning him. When shown the body, she
“Lydia will never be easy till she has exposed herself in some public
Elizabeth, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of
that I can from my heart most cordially wish you equal felicity in
At that age I became acquainted with the celebrated poets of our own
son? I wish to prepare you for the woeful news, but I know it is
I _should_ be looked at. I do assure you that the news does not affect
and despised, every country must be equally horrible. At length the
than Mrs. Bennet and Mrs. Philips, was an amiable, intelligent, elegant
“Yes, he went on Tuesday, as I wrote you word.”
called out as loud as she could, “If you do, I’ll set Dinah at you!”
to reflection on my situation.
quadrille in the evening. Lady Catherine was reckoned proud by many
these words only drew deep groans from me. Sometimes, indeed, I felt a
common subdivisions of quality--demureness, extreme minuteness of touch,
attention. The first half hour was spent in piling up the fire, lest she
With a stronger voice she soon added, “I have this comfort immediately,
liberal!
CHAPTER IV.    The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill
“But you are not entitled to know _mine_; nor will such behaviour as
“But if you have got them to-day,” said Elizabeth, “my mother’s purpose
into the room.
the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and seemed not to
mean to be unhappy about him.
spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they
totally unfitted for the company of strangers. Such were my reflections as
extricate me from seemingly insurmountable difficulties. Sometimes,
Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving her answer, asked in
injustice in this? Am I to be thought the only criminal, when all
am _not_ a great reader, and I have pleasure in many things.”
Lydia’s character. Excuse me,--for I must speak plainly. If you, my dear
again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation, console herself for the
little uneasy--a little fearful of my sister’s happiness with him in
watering-place and a camp. Upon the whole, therefore, she found, what
“Yes, ma’am, that he was indeed; and his son will be just like him--just
CHAPTER XII.
husband, called out, as she entered the library,--
repay you? I feel the greatest remorse for the disappointment of which I
she could.
of my own vampire, my own spirit let loose from the grave, and forced
drew him oftener from home than anything else could do. He delighted in
goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before.
it was evident that he was very much in love with her. They saw much to
to about two feet high: even then she walked up towards it rather
her communication.
“Did you speak from your own observation,” said she, “when you told him
you so seldom. By the by, I mean to lecture you a little upon their
a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of success. Life and death
This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being
officer, sometimes another, had been her favourite, as their attentions
premeditation, and her entreaty that _she_ would not give in to it. In a
The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter,
servants. She was busily searching through the neighbourhood for a
Involved in this affair,
the knowledge he seemed to possess concerning me. I suppose some
and his commendation of everything would have touched Mrs. Bennet’s
sportsmen, were in very good time. When they repaired to the
penniless, and alone, but free. Such would be my liberty except that in my
cannot find out that Jane saw anything of him in London. Well, he is a
All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling
the ground a leathern portmanteau containing several articles of dress and
not extinguish the spark of existence which you had so wantonly
lifeless form of his creator, he seemed to forget my presence, and
As the period fixed for our marriage drew nearer, whether from cowardice or
us, and Wickham had constant admission to the house. _He_ was
her twice. Only think of _that_, my dear: he actually danced with her
“You doubt me,” cried Jane, slightly colouring; “indeed, you have no
his determination, I do not suppose that it would ultimately have
and made the important communication. Its effect was most extraordinary;
slave, not the master, of an impulse which I detested yet could not
“But about his toes?” the Mock Turtle persisted. “How _could_ he turn
Heading to Chapter XXIV.                                             168
continued the same, and she left him disappointed and sorry. It was not
the furies possessed me as I concluded, and rage choked my utterance.
their dear forms, as sometimes they haunted even my waking hours, and
be from Lady Catherine, and she anticipated with dismay all the
console and nothing appease her. Nor did that day wear out her
coaxed and threatened her by turns. She endeavoured to secure Jane in
other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game
although the sun shone upon me, as upon the happy and gay of heart, I
the exertion would soon have been nothing. One ought not to repine; but,
CHAPTER XXXI.
Wickham was not at all more distressed than herself; but his manners
Colonel Forster; and then he had nothing of a pleasant nature to send.
am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the
this difficulty, but I was obliged to relinquish all attempt to supply
Elizabeth herself could be, and unconsciously closed his book. He was
When at length they arose to take leave, Mrs. Bennet was most pressingly
“The elevation of his feelings.”
few minutes, Mrs. Bennet half opened the door and called out,--
believing what I say. I wish you very happy and very rich, and by
The son confirmed his father’s account, but when Daniel Nugent was
“I do not believe a word of it, my dear. If he had been so very
could at all forgive their daughter.
friend.
Elizabeth was so much caught by what passed, as to leave her very little
Pemberley House, situated on the opposite side of the valley, into which
has wandered or what region he may now inhabit.”
Mr. Bingley to _her_.”
fields in every direction, and could tell how many trees there were in
that is charming! Three daughters married! Ten thousand a year! Oh,
Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. Alice knew it was
she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words
which there could be no difference of sentiment. Elizabeth listened with
in this change of circumstances, because with such a husband her misery
feelings, it only remained, he thought, to secure and expedite a
me with the gentle voice of love; no dear hand supported me. The
reading and writing, and looking out of window in his own book room,
The form of the monster on whom I had bestowed existence was for ever
blast me by his presence, I might, with unfailing aim, put an end to
“You are old,” said the youth, “one would hardly suppose
“For my own part,” she rejoined, “I must confess that I never could see
“Nearly two miles high,” added the Queen.
Elizabeth I possessed a treasure, alas, balanced by those horrors of
and noble names.
“The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind. From their infancy,
“But now it comes out”
“Certainly. But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most
immediately after your arrival?”
have you executed on the spot.”
they should return. Presently Ernest came, and enquired if we had seen
of peace in all families within the reach of my influence; and on
had dined lately with their uncle; a private had been flogged; and it
his journey to London might be followed, even sooner than he now
means of injuring your amiable daughters, and beg leave to
without anger such treatment: but Sir William’s good-breeding carried
were dead, for I fancy it will go hard with you! However, that’s none
prize-money to purchase stock, and then himself solicited the young
she soon afterwards said,--
When the card tables were placed, he had an opportunity of obliging her,
along the sands, he struck his foot against something and fell at his
They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr. Gardiner, after
nothing better to say than his first remark, “It was the _best_ butter,
dark, but gentle, although animated; her features of a regular
Elizabeth, began inquiring after his acquaintance in that neighbourhood,
your secrecy. My sister, who is more than ten years my junior, was left
goodness.
been out many hours and felt the torment of a burning thirst, a prelude to
So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.
felt depressed; when they rejoiced, I sympathised in their joys. I saw
[Illustration: M^{r.} & M^{rs.} Bennet
before gave place to hellish rage and gnashing of teeth. Inflamed by
admitted into her family again, before she set off for the north,
could I consider the magnitude and complexity of my plan as any
Through this crevice a small room was visible, whitewashed and clean
the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the
She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth the possibility of his
Their visits to Mrs. Philips were now productive of the most interesting
From herself to Jane, from Jane to Bingley, her thoughts were in a line
talked so agreeably of Kent and Hertfordshire, of travelling and staying
her eyes, envied everyone to whom he spoke, had scarcely patience enough
with candour and answer me, I conjure you, with confidence and
northern sides of the mountains, the lakes, and the dashing of the
“And I have another favour to ask. Will you come and see me?”
in which she remained as to the extent of what she should communicate,
masquerades, in which the characters were drawn from the heroes of
he did not know where, and he knew he should have nothing to live
written by a rather more ladylike and intelligent Lydia Bennet in the
forgotten.
language only. I am now going to claim the protection of some friends,
“It is unlucky,” said she, after a short pause, “that you should not be
nature rather to direct my endeavours so soon as I should point them
When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
finances, there was a very powerful motive for secrecy, in addition to
to the loss of their society, she was persuaded that Jane must soon
fun here! What do you think has happened this morning? Mr. Collins has
had said enough to keep him quiet.
eagerly questioned by his wife and five daughters at once.
with regret; and in this early example of what Lydia’s infamy must
when they approached her, she said to Miss Bennet, “I beg your pardon,
with her himself, attended to her conversation with others. His doing so
“Oh! So Bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?” said Alice to
whispering a few words to her sister, ran out of the room.
“It was the prospect of constant society, and good society,” he added,
manners which he observed was to him an inexhaustible source of
above them all? If I could but see you as happy! If there were but such
be able to do so. Lady Catherine’s great attentions to Mrs. Collins you
“Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
_I think, however, though the thought will doubtless seem heretical to
gazed with delight on her dark eyes, fringed by deep lashes, and her
death and suicide were calculated to fill me with wonder. I did not
of being debarred from a liberal education. He said little, but when
acquainted with the path, and the presence of another would destroy the
now to lament?”
master of the oriental languages, and thus he should open a field for
report soon followed that Mr. Bingley was to bring twelve ladies and
married Darcy just as willingly without Pemberley as with it, and
natural consequence of the prejudices I had been encouraging. There is
At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily writing in
Mrs. Bennet give up the point. She talked to Elizabeth again and again;
or himself there was no way out of it for a man of sense and spirit but
flowers and those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head
offensive to his patron. He must write his own sermons; and the time
one or the other again!”
before her marriage, she had spent a considerable time in that very part
“Oh, yes! Be so kind as to apologize for us to Miss Darcy. Say that
remember, with the design of soon returning. The part which I acted is
Colonel Forster looked very becoming the other night at Sir William’s in
composure, “I have been walking in the grove some time, in the hope of
moreover, I feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing
But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at least it
“I can’t explain _myself_, I’m afraid, sir,” said Alice, “because I’m
“As wet as ever,” said Alice in a melancholy tone: “it doesn’t seem to
particularly dangerous, as the slightest sound, such as even speaking
He began his lecture by a recapitulation of the history of chemistry and
There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at
hide-and-seek, in-and-out business, which in the transactions between
In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library, she saw
and me; we are enemies. Begone, or let us try our strength in a fight,
saying your opinion of him is sunk. We must not be so ready to fancy
they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a
Title-page                                                             v
“The murderer discovered! Good God! how can that be? who could attempt
“A great deal of good management, depend upon it. Yes, yes. _They_ will
Charlotte explained by letting them know that the whole party was asked
Mrs. Gardiner was surprised and concerned: but as they were now
and his own elevated and gentle manners have created. I wish to soothe
never be shaken, and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious, as
Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
though she had not before known its extent, agreed equally well with his
microcosm, the cosmic quality of it is at least as eminent as the
voiceless grief of my Elizabeth. This also was my doing! And my
in return, by sitting down to whist.
“Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!” the soldiers shouted
meet, reason with, persuade, and finally bribe the man whom he always
our joys and griefs; and how shall I inflict pain on my long absent
Mr. Collins was not left long to the silent contemplation of his
particular places; at his own house especially, and of a Sunday evening,
me.
“Well, my dear,” said he, when she ceased speaking, “I have no more to
Clerval called forth the better feelings of my heart; he again taught
saw some dogs drawing a sledge, with a man in it, across the ice.”
lines. As for your Elizabeth’s picture, you must not attempt to have it
of his late father’s steward, to be his brother? Heaven and earth!--of
delirium or death would have been my portion.
drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing against the ceiling,
“My dear Lizzy, you cannot think me so weak as to be in danger now.”
whom I sincerely love, and of whose favour I have some hopes.’
“Take some more tea,” the March Hare said to Alice, very earnestly.
are historically true._
Till Elizabeth entered the drawing-room at Netherfield, and looked in
picture of a young gentleman, the son of her late master’s steward, who
a mixture of pain and pleasure, such as I had never before experienced,
Darcy’s sister, as, by Wickham’s account, she would make him abundantly
“The reason is,” said the Gryphon, “that they _would_ go with the
but if it be all true, if indeed I did not dream, I am sorry that I am
Charlotte. “Mr. Darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend,
the Gryphon.
outstript us all. Ay, stare if you please; but it is nevertheless true. A
Nothing could exceed in beauty the contrast between these two excellent
water-plant, there chanced to be a little alteration. It originated in
her partial, to make her betray a sensibility which might injure her in
arrangement of them. If his own vanity, however, did not mislead him,
disappointment. But I journey towards England, and I may there find
That it would be done with such trifling exertion on his side, too, was
servants remained. But when they had withdrawn, he said to her, “Mrs.
evil, then the actual bitterness of grief commences. Yet from whom has
may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones; but
remorse. I was now about to form another being of whose dispositions I was
“Now tell me, Pat, what’s that in the window?”
the country or the kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with
I get’ is the same thing as ‘I get what I like’!”
very great favourite with some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst and
carriage drew them to a window, and they saw a gentleman and lady in a
me a fiend. Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous.”
the giver of oblivion.
education.”
mother’s rapacity for whist players, and in a few moments after seated
[Illustration:
himself directly to Miss Bennet with a polite congratulation; Mr. Hurst
Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do,
the shore, I might have put into the harbour ignorant of the distance
I do not know how long I remained in this situation, but when I awoke I
on in the common way.
trials were reserved for her.
bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.”
Everybody declared that he was the wickedest young man in the world; and
for, on first hearing it, Mrs. Bennet sat quite still, and unable to
“How so? how can it affect them?”
particular notice. The two first dances, however, brought a return of
remote world. This faith gives a solemnity to his reveries that render
They walked on without knowing in what direction. There was too much to
promise liberally accorded by my favourite authors, the fulfilment of which
Yet one duty remained to me, the recollection of which finally
agreeable than his companion expected. There was nothing of presumption
by all means, to refuse him.”
again and again for the honour you have done me in your proposals, but
and every now and then she had to stop and untwist it. After a while
evening; (by-the-bye, Mrs. Forster and me are _such_ friends!) and so
they were set, his shrivelled complexion and straight black lips.
his speech, which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the
“With my mother upstairs. She will be down in a moment, I dare say.”
only of _you_.”
food, and placing it in a sledge, to draw which he had seized on a
will join me early to-morrow,” he continued, “and among them are some
fender, to give an account of their journey, and of all that had
“Not so much as I could wish, sir: but I dare say he may spend half his
one a-piece, all round.
Jane. “My dear, dear Lizzy, I would, I do congratulate you; but are you
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and all
rather thin, but, however, the Little Theatre was open.
“You have said quite enough, madam. I perfectly comprehend your
united volubility. In Lydia’s imagination, a visit to Brighton comprised
[Illustration:
are good enough for her. I do not believe she often sees such at home.”
connections, and pride.”
“Miss Elizabeth Bennet!” repeated Miss Bingley. “I am all astonishment.
cannot be concealed from anyone. My youngest sister has left all her
character, and if their testimony shall not overweigh my supposed
“No, indeed,” said Alice. “What sort of a dance is it?”
her answer to put an end to every entreaty and expectation of the kind.
suddenly extinguished, and I lost all trace of him more utterly than I had
might hereafter think it right to pursue, that for the present I would
a cynic. And in that sense Miss Austen certainly was one. She may even
“She is happy, then,” said her father, drily; “and her residence there
friends. But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more
ambition to lose my life on the post-road between St. Petersburgh and
your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than decline
“Night quickly shut in, but to my extreme wonder, I found that the
his soul. The resources of his mind on this occasion were truly
in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the
were particularly intimate. Sir William Lucas had been formerly in trade
Darcy only, entered the room.
express a sense of obligation for the sentiments avowed, however
For a short space of time I remained at the window watching the pallid
Her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined. With amazement did
out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually affords, exclaiming,
lived, it was only to weep and sigh. She told me, that that same
Collins did not think it right to press the subject, from the danger of
should be in possession of the Longbourn estate, it would be highly
is very pretty; but I thought I might as well buy it as not. I shall
yourself, whose joint wickedness might desolate the world. Begone! I
that you might have the pleasure of despising my taste; but I always
“But it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any
“If they had uncles enough to fill _all_ Cheapside,” cried Bingley, “it
“And so ended his affection,” said Elizabeth, impatiently. “There has
Lydia declared herself satisfied. “Oh yes--it would be much better to
these was vacant when I arrived. This I hired. It contained but two
“Walked back with them”                                              148
that parish. And it was settled that we should all be there by eleven
found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she
of saying much: her own thoughts were employing her. She expected every
The invitation was accepted, of course, and at a proper hour they joined
“Of course it is,” said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to
They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance,
“By all means,” cried Bingley; “let us hear all the particulars, not
“‘No; but I was educated by a French family and understand that
of human nature. I had worked hard for nearly two years, for the sole
in undiminished beauty; and more than once during dinner did Mr. Bennet
When tea was over Mr. Hurst reminded his sister-in-law of the
Kitty, for Hill. I will put on my things in a moment. My dear, dear
“This is a parade,” cried he, “which does one good; it gives such an
approaching; and a fortnight only was wanting of it, when a letter
Had she found Jane in any apparent danger, Mrs. Bennet would have been
there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all the way, if
[Illustration:
infantine dispositions, which, however they may be afterwards modified,
him, I had not thought so very ill of him--I had supposed him to be
receive _him_ at Pemberley, yet, for Elizabeth’s sake, he assisted him
It was an evening of no common delight to them all; the satisfaction of
settlements, new carriages, and wedding clothes, she should undoubtedly
water. Thus situated, my only resource was to drive before the wind. I
her curiosity as all the celebrated beauties of Matlock, Chatsworth,
had been judged to be the temptation of the murderer. The servant
have their share of vexation; and it is better to know as little as
“Hadn’t time,” said the Gryphon: “I went to the Classics master,
south! Covered with ice, it was only to be distinguished from land by
occasion for entailing estates from the female line. It was not thought
life.”
it possible.”
subject.”
could most wish for. And now do, when you get to town, find them out,
“I’ve had nothing yet,” Alice replied in an offended tone, “so I can’t
ordinary style? for I dare not hope,” he continued, in a lower and more
tranquil as to the consequences of the affair.
wisely resolved to be particularly careful that no sign of admiration
effect:--
unsuitable a marriage, nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising
“It _is_ a long tail, certainly,” said Alice, looking down with wonder
from Rosings, at eight o’clock in the morning, and was as follows:--
heaven in my thoughts, now exulting in my powers, now burning with the idea
the death of Darcy’s father, five years before, it was yet in his power
She was still very poorly, and Elizabeth would not quit her at all, till
was murdered, or rather his sister, for I was educated by and have lived
Mrs. Bennet was profuse in her acknowledgments.
of the window, and one foot up the chimney, and said to herself “Now I
“It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of to yours.”
Although her disposition was gay and in many respects inconsiderate,
the herb, and by degrees, one herb from another. I found that the
thought it possible they might have gone to one of them, on their first
feelings by an appearance of hilarity that brought smiles and joy to the
load of wood. The girl met him at the door, helped to relieve him of
My object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself, with due
hard working, bent down by care and labour, distributing a scanty meal to
distinction had, perhaps, been felt too strongly. It had given him a
“My dear Victor,” cried he, “what, for God’s sake,
encounter that he was asking some odd unconnected questions--about her
being at Lambton, she had heard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly proud;
“Yes, and her petticoat; I hope you saw her petticoat, six inches deep
as the first. And to be kept back on _such_ a motive! I think it would
“She will drop the acquaintance entirely.”
curiosity to know how she would speak of her new home, how she would
all; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did
reposed under the eye of the quiet moon. A few fishing vessels alone
“—you advance twice—”
“Lady Catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman, indeed,” added
fine talking, my dear Lizzy, you may rest perfectly assured that
by these means gained a greater degree of tranquillity. Indeed, as the
capers and frisks, was the first pleasing earnest of their welcome.
“My days were spent in close attention, that I might more speedily
thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not estimable, you
about to proceed on a long and difficult voyage, the emergencies of which
When alone with Elizabeth afterwards, she spoke more on the subject.
could attempt little beside expressions of gratitude for the
from the time of year. All field sports were over. Within doors there
For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the Dormouse
Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
conjecture the causes or circumstances which may have alienated them,
perfect creature, happy and prosperous, guarded by the especial care of
Though her brother and sister were persuaded that there was no real
him must be materially affected by the difference, her sister’s
You know the song, perhaps?”
“I wish you wouldn’t squeeze so.” said the Dormouse, who was sitting
least not to Elizabeth’s wishes, for she was impatient to get home. Mrs.
which was disturbed by the approach of a beautiful child, who came
also more intelligible.
and wish him all manner of evil. But my feelings are not only cordial
“You did!” said the Hatter.
horror; at others a lively surprise, unmingled with disbelief, was painted
acquaintance with you, your manners impressing me with the fullest
a recollection of Jane, not untinctured by tenderness, and a wish of
doubted, and was silent. This he considered sufficient encouragement,
will allow.
by such error to inflict pain on her, your resentment has not been
in their cloudy retreats. What were rain and storm to me? My mule was
together from Gracechurch Street for the town of ----, in Hertfordshire;
a lovely pink.
aversion to actual love. I do not know whether the all-grasping hand of
an air of melancholy, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the
I cannot describe to you my sensations on the near prospect of my
Hertfordshire before I saw, in common with others, that Bingley
“Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you.”
then—always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn’t like _that!_”
But when her mother was gone, Jane would not be prevailed on to go down
now, no longer restrained by the fear of discovery, I gave vent to my
was every reason to believe would be attended to; and, in the clamorous
really cannot _laugh_ at it. You are safe from me.”
whom you may love; and considering yourself as bound in honour to
“I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly
them round the table.
[Illustration]
or had you intended any more serious consequences?”
“While Mary is adjusting her ideas,” he continued, “let us return to Mr.
again—‘_before she had this fit_—’ you never had fits, my dear, I
“It ought to be good,” he replied: “it has been the work of many
they were joined by Mr. Collins, who entered with an air more stately
proposal.
rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices all
in the greatest danger. During her illness many arguments had been urged to
bursting out laughing: and when she had got its head down, and was
as the sun is already far declined, I shall only have time to repeat
syllable said of her father, or the place where she lived, or anything.
I swear to you, by the earth which I inhabit, and by you that made me, that
when you quitted Geneva. This winter has been passed most miserably,
walk home. Her Ladyship’s carriage is regularly ordered for us. I
for peaceful happiness. During my youthful days discontent never
were. Every girl in or near Meryton was out of her senses about him for
From thence we proceeded to Oxford. As we entered this city, our minds
investigations and decisions are not usually influenced by my hopes or
younger sisters that they should not have their share of society and
the first grand object of every morning’s impatience. Through letters,
necessarily arise when I live in communion with an equal. I shall feel
some dreadful news which I have just received from Longbourn.”
Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression of unbounded wonder,
“Which do you mean?” and turning round, he looked for a moment at
“They couldn’t have done that, you know,” Alice gently remarked;
seem to me the very masterpieces of Miss Austen’s humour and of her
beheaded, and that you weren’t to talk nonsense.
was sinking; everything _must_ sink under such a proof of family
horror of my situation, and when I perceived that the popular voice and
She indeed veiled her grief and strove to act the comforter to us all.
Elizabeth; and her spirits were in a state of enjoyment; for she had
_that_.”
by the servant’s account, that their niece was taken suddenly ill; but
quit the sphere in which you have been brought up.”
Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said something of
hand, “that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the
dear, to have given him one of your set-downs. I quite detest the man.”
“I think I have understood that Mr. Bingley has not much idea of ever
great hurry.
birthday presents like that!” But she did not venture to say it out
entered a barn which had appeared to me to be empty. A woman was
of liberty and self-sacrifice of which these sights were the monuments
Once, however, the lieutenant asked why he had come so far upon the ice
It was completely dark when I arrived in the environs of Geneva; the gates
_yours_: I don’t like them raw.”
replied, that he was; adding, “But we expect him to-morrow, with a large
by promises of reward and wealth. Felix rejected his offers with
cool, I should not object to taking you both, as you are neither of you
among mankind, and endowed with the will and power to effect purposes
correspond with his sister? _She_ will not be able to help calling.”
“Are they in the prisoner’s handwriting?” asked another of the jurymen.
complaining tone, “and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can’t hear
false step involves her in endless ruin, that her reputation is no less
probable consequence of her allusions to Mr. Wickham, and rejoiced in
came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the melancholy words:—
“Urged by this impulse, I seized on the boy as he passed and drew him
observer. The spirits of the departed seemed to flit around and to
take more.”
and nothing escaped her observation that was passing in the room during
points she principally dwelt during the rest of the day. Nothing could
through, nor could I ask information from a single human being; but I
“What, none of you?”
would not have recognized it for Mr. Darcy. There was now an interest,
“His parting obeisance”
ignorant, and less insipid. From the further disadvantage of Lydia’s
behaviour, the little advantage she could derive from the friendship of
yet the matchless rehearsal-scenes and the characters of Mrs. Norris and
Meryton, to attempt to place him in an amiable light. I am not equal to
was short, and he listened without attempting to interrupt her while she
imprudent manner, nay, which has already arisen from it, I am sure you
girl for a few weeks, and, when accident separates them, so easily
“Don’t you mean ‘purpose’?” said Alice.
its repeated discussion, no other could detain them from it long, during
keener sense of her sister’s sufferings. It was some consolation to
accuse and for whose seizure and punishment I call upon you to exert your
Sometimes I wished to express my sensations in my own mode, but the
in the eyes of a man often times his consequence. Elizabeth made no
“Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will visit them
visit. The ballots had been thrown; they were all black, and Justine
“Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,” the Mock Turtle
alacrity which showed no doubt of their happiness.
thought. The rain was pouring in torrents, and thick mists hid the
would change to dull reality—the grass would be only rustling in the
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
“Yes; she will remain there till Christmas.”
“How is this? I must not be trifled with, and I demand an answer. If
way--teaching them, playing with them, and loving them.
actually with them! If such goodness does not make her miserable now,
all possible, can only be effected by an undertaking such as mine.
instances, I had myself endeavoured to forget, because they were not
Mr. Darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunt’s ill-breeding, and made
foresaw obscurely that I was destined to become the most wretched of human
in every direction, vast and irregular plains of ice, which seemed to
After many pauses and many trials of other subjects, Elizabeth could not
Elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table, and they went upstairs
husband in the_ Spectator, _who describes, with all the gusto and all the
the thunder of the ground sea, which threatened my destruction. But
attempts would at least lay the foundations of future success. Nor
present unknown. She saw all the glories of the camp: its tents
the tables were broken up, the carriage was offered to Mrs. Collins,
journey by water, sleeping that night at Evian and continuing our
feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of her persisting
smiles of consolation. But it was all a dream; no Eve soothed my
but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her.
seminaries in town; had a fortune of twenty thousand pounds; were in the
two.
night, she immediately, with her usual condescension, expressed what she
him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the
liked him but Jane; and even feared that with the others it was a
“But it is true that I am a wretch. I have murdered the lovely and
me. But I will not be alarmed, though your sister _does_ play so well.
suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great
the whole party. Jane ran to her uncle and aunt, and welcomed and
talking to her brother. He, who had always inspired in herself a respect
him, yet can I counsel one so infinitely miserable, so destitute of
where Miss Bennet was making tea, and Elizabeth pouring out the coffee,
attentive to Darcy as heretofore, and paid off every arrear of civility
consent, there was still something to be wished for. But the morrow
the obliged. Mr. Collins was gratified; and with a more smiling
could not think without anger, hardly without contempt, on that easiness
mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown before they are packed
never had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting.
She was engaged one day, as she walked, in re-perusing Jane’s last
back. Her Ladyship was highly incensed.
“I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near her
musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it is, I would
A grin was on the face of the monster; he seemed to jeer, as with his
marry. And as for wedding clothes, do not let them wait for that, but
a daughter married before I have, and that Longbourn estate is just as
the day before, and was not yet returned; adding, with a significant
this mean? Who was I? What was I? Whence did I come? What was my
prevailed on to favour them again, after the pause of half a minute
We entered the gloomy prison chamber and beheld Justine sitting on some
[Illustration:
only regimentals to make him completely charming. His appearance was
meet with a better. But I have always observed, that they who are
affair as she wished, was excessively disappointed.
do as little and think as little about it, as any father could do, in
explained:--“About a month ago I received this letter, and about a
last man in the world whom I could ever be prevailed on to marry.”
“As night came on, Agatha and the Arabian retired early. When they
and all the articles of plate which Mr. Collins had promised; and, as he
approve of both the discourses which he had already had the honour of
that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything
her married daughter in the neighbourhood, before she was banished to
“These thoughts calmed me, and in the afternoon I sank into a profound
“’Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
swelled into greater, but without any artificial appearance. Its banks
“Then you may _sit_ down,” the King replied.
your absence.”
Forster it will be quite a shame if he does not.”
heard you utter. Good girl! It would vex me, indeed, to see you again
hearer with consternation and make fear and unnatural horror the inmates of
When they left the high road for the lane to Hunsford, every eye was in
“It certainly is a most iniquitous affair,” said Mr. Bennet; “and
As I stood at the door, on a sudden I beheld a stream of fire issue from an
“This is the consequence, you see, madam, of marrying a daughter,” said
have ever followed in his track. Sometimes the peasants, scared by
intervals.
said not a word. After a silence of several minutes, he came towards her
repeated conversations occurring at different times between Jane and
the Lakes; and still thought there might have been time enough. But it
As he said this his countenance became expressive of a calm, settled
pronounced her name. She had turned away; but on hearing herself called,
certainly admired her, and his situation in life was most eligible; but,
“Oh! Take him away! I cannot see him; for God’s sake, do not
I quitted my seat, and walked on, although the darkness and storm
moved, and do not disdain me. Listen to my tale; when you have heard
every night a small quantity of laudanum, for it was by means of this drug
of anybody’s children, it should not be of my own, however.”
science of words or letters.
“Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak to you”                             422
regard; and I remained convinced, from the evening’s scrutiny, that
is—‘Be what you would seem to be’—or if you’d like it put more
ladder?—Why, I hadn’t to bring but one; Bill’s got the other—Bill!
the tenets of her religion and taught her to aspire to higher powers of
domes, embosomed among aged trees.
say. If this be the case, he deserves you. I could not have parted with
was, all flashed across my memory and I groaned bitterly.
thunderstorm.
interference in the views of his friend.
so very guarded. If a woman conceals her affection with the same skill
“I hope,” said she, as they were walking together in the shrubbery the
Felix and the sanguinary laws of man, I had learned now to work
husband and the father of a family.
“Dear, dear Elizabeth!” I exclaimed, when I had read her
Lizzy could tell us what relations he has now living better than any
[Illustration:
cottage and cultivating the garden.
regular rule: you invented it just now.”
imprudence were fatal to her preserver. On the third day my mother
spot.
But why Mr. Darcy came so often to the Parsonage it was more difficult
circumstances, she thus went on:--“I am now convinced, my dear aunt,
sweet laughing blue eyes, dark eyelashes, and curling hair. When he
often met with. While Sir William was with them, Mr. Collins devoted his
together.
and read. You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which I demand
“You write uncommonly fast.”
“Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,” said the Cat.
The first part of this deposition did not in the least interest me, but
“At last I am able to send you some tidings of my niece, and such
you that I do not want to dance a reel at all; and now despise me if you
The same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in the
Bingley, if he _had been_ imposed on, would have much to suffer when
waves, but on examination they found that the clothes were not wet and even
As the images that floated before me became more distinct, I grew
the edge of a precipice, towards which thousands are crowding and
repeatedly asked what she had been doing with herself since their
“CAROLINE BINGLEY.”
remembered also the nervous fever with which I had been seized just at
discourage him.”
She said no more, and they went down the other dance and parted in
encouragement. In nine cases out of ten, a woman had better show _more_
was almost equal to what she had known on first witnessing his altered
Chapter 1
Under the guidance of my new preceptors I entered with the greatest
truth, I must acknowledge, that, with all the disadvantages of this
friendly and obliging. It was Mr. Collins’s picture of Hunsford and
to you without rather wishing to give you pain than not. Now, be
some of the offals that the travellers had left had been roasted, and
herself were sure of being applied to for some little assistance towards
in our journey hither, I have reason to think Bingley very much indebted
had ventured only one glance at Darcy. He looked serious as usual; and,
to restrain me from committing some dreadful act of violence.
in one hand and a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a
mine became every day more tumultuous. Increase of knowledge only
Nor did my hate long confine itself to useless wishes; I began to
reasonable; but depend upon it I will carry my point.”
This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she
The Queen’s argument was, that if something wasn’t done about it in
“I truly thank him. In these last moments I feel the sincerest
his mistress once before the destined ceremony; but she was bathed in
these mountains I should scarcely regret Switzerland and the Rhine.”
threw a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.
Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt. Their first subject was her
in order to complete my work. It was, indeed, a filthy process in
hardly left her power of comprehension; and from impatience of knowing
indignation were uncontrollable when he heard the decision of the
in such a manner as must be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could
turned to him and said,--
Regulars; and, among his former friends, there are still some who are
“They had forgotten to leave any message”
pleasing, than any other man.”
led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.
Pray, how did you manage to do it?”
and wags its tail when it’s pleased. Now _I_ growl when I’m pleased,
at Pemberley, before they left the country. Miss Darcy, though with a
“In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of.”
have often wished to express to you but have never had the courage to begin.
“So you did, old fellow!” said the others.
my cousin Elizabeth, and yourself, of what evils you may incur by a
mortal combat. He approached; his countenance bespoke bitter anguish,
heaven, where we shall all be happy; and that consoles me, going as I
were filled with the remembrance of the events that had been transacted
frank-hearted and happy. My aunt conceived a great attachment for her,
“This is a most unfortunate affair, and will probably be much talked of.
feelings, exquisitely beautiful. Yet she appeared confident in
who will claim an acquaintance with you,--Mr. Bingley and his sisters.”
himself at all, or offended that his letter was not rather addressed to
float about after the breaking up of the ice. I profited of this time to
herself wept as Elizabeth spoke, but she did not answer. My own
divide with me. I am joined with him in the guardianship of Miss Darcy.”
explaining it; and when I have expressed my utter ignorance, I am only left
Besides, I found that my understanding improved so much with every
of my malignity, it softened and attracted me. For a few moments I
of the application, and at length wholly banished by the conviction that
connections. I never heard of her existence till the day before
round my cards.”
Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.
any dislike of the proposal, and seeing in her husband, who was fond of
thought Alice; “I might as well be at school at once.” However, she got
Elizabeth was excessively disappointed: she had set her heart on seeing
came to meet Maria and hear the news; and various were the subjects
with by his feelings, made Elizabeth so near laughing that she could not
laughing myself at your surprise to-morrow morning, as soon as I am
that it amply repaid her for the little sacrifice of her time. This was
All that is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the
“It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half frightened, as it
Mr. Darcy was condemned as the worst of men.
Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, she had the
cannot--I have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly
complaisance,--but in vain; Mary would not understand them; such an
been forming a new acquaintance.”
out of sight.
Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped
“Tell your sister I am delighted to hear of her improvement on the harp,
things happening. While she was looking at the place where it had been,
wish for happiness and thought with melancholy delight of my beloved
the other ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had in fact
“That’s the reason they’re called lessons,” the Gryphon remarked:
consideration in the world,” replied Darcy.
But I was in reality very ill, and surely nothing but the unbounded and
they lay sprawling about, reminding her very much of a globe of
entertain herself in this manner; and as his composure convinced her
surprised to find that he meditated a quick return. Mrs. Bennet wished
herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was
attachment, that it is not safe to leave any to itself. We can all
to the name of natural philosophy. When I was otherwise quite restored
to Colonel F., who, instantly taking the alarm, set off from B.,
woes and survive to add to the list of his dark crimes. He is eloquent
visit them.”
her, and that her manners were dictatorial and insolent. She has the
persuade you at last. I was sure you loved your girls too well to
action that he could towards them.
quarter of an hour.
*      *      *      *      *      *      *
conceive a consolation for my toils which I may never know, that I am
“You should learn not to make personal remarks,” Alice said with some
Saturday, and to Saturday he still meant to stay.
whilst, still urged on by an eagerness which perpetually increased, I
was doubly engaged, on one hand collecting an account of the present
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
the multitude of feelings that crowded into my mind. I passed through
announced by an unusual tranquillity and gladness of soul which
Elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness. She had
“I beg your pardon,” replied Miss Bingley, turning away with a sneer.
sink to rest. Then the appearance of death was distant, although the
not object to them, they can be nothing to _you_.”
“But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be
I shall only look up and say ‘Who am I then? Tell me that first, and
in a less tranquil tone, and with a heightened colour.
“The first pleasing earnest of their welcome”
was a long time before she became at all reconciled to the idea of so
the words they uttered, not having any apparent connection with visible
affection whatever on the occasion. Mrs. Bennet could hardly comprehend
“which was my chief inducement to enter the ----shire. I know it to be a
“Obstinate, headstrong girl! I am ashamed of you! Is this your gratitude
slave by the Turks; recommended by her beauty, she had won the heart of
compliment must be all for herself. Her astonishment, however, was
astonish--and, perhaps, you would not express it quite so strongly
must own I felt a little proud when my captain offered me the second
decisive.”
observed my friend’s behaviour attentively; and I could then perceive
had no fear, therefore, that any circumstantial evidence could be
than one young lady was sitting down in want of a partner. Mr. Darcy,
_her_. You have a sweet room here, Mr. Bingley, and a charming prospect
other feelings which will probably soon drive away his regard for me.
head first, and then sat upon it.)
“Good gracious!” cried Maria, after a few minutes’ silence, “it seems
but you will not be consulted as to your quarters, I promise you.”
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?”
is nearly complete. Neither yours nor any man’s death is needed to
think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well—eh, stupid?”
which soon brought to her recollection that Mr. Darcy’s explanation
lost that lovely darling boy, but this poor girl, whom I sincerely
drawing-room, and pronouncing them, after a short survey, to be
“In my opinion, the younger son of an earl can know very little of
ladies with whom it might be a pleasure to fall in love; there are at
gazed on my midnight labours, while, with unrelaxed and breathless
sensations. It was during an access of this kind that I suddenly left
worth knowing, after all.”
“But now it comes out”                                               442
beginning to descend; the clouds swept across it swifter than the
hackney-coach, and dismissed the chaise that brought them from Epsom.
We had scarcely visited the various lakes of Cumberland and Westmorland
Elizabeth’s astonishment was beyond expression. She stared, coloured,
“Call it what you like,” said the Cat. “Do you play croquet with the
began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: “‘Miss Alice! Come
devote myself to a science for which I believed myself to possess a
“My dearest Victor, what infatuation is this? My dear son, I entreat
When the ladies removed after dinner Elizabeth ran up to her sister, and
falsehood.
CHAPTER XLVII.
“delighted to see their dear friend again”
When the gentlemen rose to go away, Mrs. Bennet was mindful of her
imagination of the enormity she was supposed to have committed. She
“I do not see what right Mr. Darcy had to decide on the propriety of his
operations.
so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly
disposition often made them enter the cottages of the poor. This, to my
was exceedingly agreeable to _her_. Elizabeth, however, did not choose
more interesting from the hope we dare to entertain of her being
being so thin and so small. There was neither in figure nor face any
aunt, and all Mr. Collins’s scruples of leaving Mr. and Mrs. Bennet for
neighbours might all see Mr. Bingley, in consequence of it, before
The monster saw my determination in my face and gnashed his teeth in the
rooms, and these exhibited all the squalidness of the most miserable
and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a
“Mr. Collins appears very fortunate in his choice of a wife.”
case? Tell me, dearest Victor. Answer me, I conjure you by our mutual
illuminated the object, and discovered its shape plainly to me; its
was, and who was its proprietor, when she had listened to the
eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they
she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.
either from the Archbishop or Lady Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to
understanding than I now do of her heart. My dear Jane, Mr. Collins is a
the promised narrative, partly from curiosity and partly from a strong
youngest should tax Mr. Bingley with having promised on his first coming
broken by misery, I should have been happy to have possessed as the brother
forgotten, there was really a great air of comfort throughout, and by
remnants of the shepherd’s breakfast, which consisted of bread, cheese,
often seen.”
suspected by Jane, to whom she had never yet had courage to show Mrs.
“And ever since that,” the Hatter went on in a mournful tone, “he won’t
tolerable, but not out of the common way; and as for her eyes, which
lift up her eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of her
whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own, his aunt would
no more.
society! But she had chosen it with her eyes open; and though evidently
you on your wedding-night_,” I should regard the threatened fate as
Bennet’s manor. I am sure he will be vastly happy to oblige you, and
two young men. One has got all the goodness, and the other all the
some explanation necessary before we meet.
concern. To the little town of Lambton, the scene of Mrs. Gardiner’s
answered that he had never been so fortunate as to meet Miss Bennet. The
it will then be but poor consolation to believe the world equally in the
had been taken from before my eyes and that I for the first time saw
well over; the agitations of former partiality entirely so. She had even
a clue as that, it might be of essential consequence. At present we have
]
“But you--how are you?” cried Elizabeth. “You look pale. How much you
One of my first duties on my recovery was to introduce Clerval to the
cupboards as she fell past it.
Chapter 11
of my own child; but to be sure, Jane--one does not often see anybody
her is a proof, I will believe, that he is come to a right way of
arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasburgh. This interfered
aspirations and ambition of his son. Henry deeply felt the misfortune
pleasure and was about to remove a plank to procure myself a little
CHAPTER LVI.
finished her speech. “Of what are you talking?”
necessary to make our knowledge public; for of what use could it
hurrying into the little copse, where she was least likely to be
in a wondering tone.
/* RIGHT “Gracechurch Street, _Sept. 6_. */
kind with the man whom he so justly scorned.
that by the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and
conceal from her his share in Lydia’s marriage. All was acknowledged,
conversation, had Miss Lydia Bennet come upon the town; or, as the
and who had nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine
it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her
him whether he intended to accept Mr. Bingley’s invitation, and if he
“—so long as I get _somewhere_,” Alice added as an explanation.
summit of a sloping ice mountain, and one, sinking under his fatigue,
violently, that she looked down into its face in some alarm. This time
happiness. No, no, let me shift for myself; and, perhaps, if I have very
swear to me, Walton, that he shall not escape, that you will seek him
such a flutter, that I am sure I can’t write; so I will dictate, and you
as Dawson does not object to the barouche-box, there will be very good
[Illustration:
“Now I have got some news for you,” said Lydia, as they sat down to
were immediately wandering up the street in quest of the officers, and
had come three months ago, and then you would have found us all joyous and
reading in her neighbours’ looks their equal amazement in beholding it.
particulars also of Miss Bingley’s visit in Gracechurch Street, and
imagination was too much exalted by my first success to permit me to
Bingley.
that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.
result of previous study?” These are the things which give Miss Austen’s
people, he knew, but _he_ had never seen anything but affability in her.
intermission till coffee came in, delivering her opinion on every
quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of saying to
except the fine eyes, and a hint or two that she had at any rate
injure anything human, I turned my fury towards inanimate objects. As
dealing with young men appears) is a not much less notable sketch in
from so ill-judged a direction of talents--talents which, rightly used,
disobey. Yet when she died! Nay, then I was not miserable. I had
“Your family is perfectly well,” said Mr. Kirwin with
point, as well as the still more interesting one of Bingley’s being
mistaken--or, at least, it is slight, it is nothing in comparison of
is founded. Long before it had taken place, my opinion of you was
situation must, at best, be bad enough; but that it was no worse, she
avail that I now ask thee to pardon me? I, who irretrievably destroyed thee
report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of his coming no more to
My temper was sometimes violent, and my passions vehement; but by some
perhaps, have _heard_ of such a place as Gracechurch Street, but he
humanity, its Philistinism, its well-meaning but hide-bound morality,
mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam’s and Mr. Darcy’s having both spent three
indiscriminately. I confess that neither the structure of languages,
“Write to me very often, my dear.”
not myself, you see.”
years old, while making an excursion beyond the frontiers of Italy, they
the earth who might make the very existence of the species of man a
was to me like the torture of single drops of water continually falling
but as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips, they became livid with
affections, because I had no money, what occasion could there be for
however, that some of his companions in the ----shire might be able to
“Never mind!” said the King, with an air of great relief. “Call the
ceremonious card. Jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the
philosophic composure. He said as little as he had ever been in the
as she spoke. (The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his
on a common and read nothing but our Uncle Thomas’ books of voyages.
letter appeared, and she was completely puzzled.
very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements.
you know.”
It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that embarrassment
him, as now, when all love must be vain.
the body, I exclaimed, “Have my murderous machinations deprived you
tore to pieces the thing on which I was engaged. The wretch saw me
nobody feels for my poor nerves.”
were vanquished, I should be a free man. Alas! What freedom? Such as the
Letter 4
my soul with anguish.
claims of duty, honour, and gratitude. You are determined to ruin him in
might strike them that they could be more economically, though less
and that made me wretched, for I knew that it was impossible: and to
time she found a little bottle on it, (“which certainly was not here
Beaufort had taken effectual measures to conceal himself, and it was ten
“All young ladies accomplished! My dear Charles, what do you mean?”
“I can’t help it,” said Alice very meekly: “I’m growing.”
“Not I!” said the Lory hastily.
had the mortification of seeing Mary, after very little entreaty,
and he hoped that change of scene and varied amusement would, before my
“Are you, indeed? And pray what sort of a guardian do you make? Does
creature, I could not help supposing that you might regret our
“Though it is difficult,” said Jane, “to guess in what way he can mean
had always been my favourite companion in the ramble of this nature
They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank—the
maddening rage when I thought of him, and desired and ardently prayed
the young woman of distinguished birth. She is unfortunately of a sickly
within view of the house, with weary ancles, dirty stockings, and a face
dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you.”
their _three_ months’ acquaintance they had been intimate _two_.
be greater than at home. He heard her attentively, and then said,--
“To Jane herself,” she exclaimed, “there could be no possibility of
only think of the bourne of my travels and the work which was to occupy
dance.
relation. Two years after this event Caroline became his wife.
message to her.
of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration. The
man be to me as Clerval was, or any woman another Elizabeth? Even
all the firmness of which I was master, removed the planks which I had
Chapter 21
These reflections have dispelled the agitation with which I began my
“She had better have stayed at home,” cried Elizabeth: “perhaps she
the streets, pacing them with quick steps, as if I sought to avoid the
European colonization and trade. In Britain only could he further the
employed. Once commenced, it would quickly be achieved, and I might be
“No,” said her father. “Wickham’s a fool if he takes her with a farthing
the history of his acquaintance with Mr. Darcy. She dared not even
“It is a proof of your own attachment to Hertfordshire. Anything beyond
Elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his friend. He
I was spoiled by my parents, who, though good themselves, (my father
Lizzy, you have been very sly, very reserved with me. How little did you
“It is well that you come here to whine over the desolation that you
and has since dined in company with him four times. This is not quite
agreeable; but Elizabeth, less clear-sighted perhaps in this case than
acting before my eyes; the females were flying and the enraged Felix
turned to his daughter and said,--
her beyond a monosyllable.
“I never thought about it,” said Alice. “Why?”
will not repine. It cannot last long. He will be forgot, and we shall
of reading again. I can remember some expressions which might justly
“Well, and so we breakfasted at ten as usual: I thought it would never
Doth close behind him tread.
unsuitable a match. The strangeness of Mr. Collins’s making two offers
may be of service, if not to himself, to many others, for it must deter
family. The far and the near must be relative, and depend on many
happened!”
expectation of a reply. But I was bewildered, perplexed, and unable to
the road, reached Longbourn by dinnertime the next day. It was a comfort
her,--
“I thank you,” replied I; “listen, therefore, to the
court,” and I never understood what it meant till now.”
husband any satisfactory description of Mr. Bingley. They attacked him
look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more
the streets of Ingolstadt. Delighted and surprised, I embraced her,
know, and he says it’s so useful, it’s worth a hundred pounds! He says
I shall soon cease to be—a miserable spectacle of wrecked humanity,
She entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious, made no
probably, to have the opportunity of showing it without her husband’s
“He did not talk to me of his own arts,” said Fitzwilliam, smiling. “He
she sat down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table.
lukewarm, for he knew that he was still in the power of his deliverer
memories than that their brother’s fortune and their own had been
Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain.
unfold to the world the deepest mysteries of creation.
importance, and till he entered the room the misery of her impatience
During their walk, it was resolved that Mr. Bennet’s consent should be
half my misfortune, and I feel as if I could die in peace now that my
“Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,” Alice
have interested the most unfortunate being. Clerval did not like it so well
acquaintance. The subjection in which his father had brought him up had
(she had kept a piece of it in her pocket) till she was about a foot
to me. I was now free. Often, after the rest of the family had
Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly
Bingley’s appearance and invitation, the mother and three daughters all
Frontispiece                                                          iv
she dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited her there.
to quiver, and my heart to palpitate.
on, as she heard the Queen’s voice in the distance, screaming with
these twenty years at least.”
“The garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by a lane
His daughter’s request, for such it might be considered, of being
“And this is your real opinion! This is your final resolve! Very well. I
a solemn bow, and though she could not hear a word of it, she felt as if
herself; and his disappointed feelings became the object of compassion.
a rabbit! I suppose Dinah’ll be sending me on messages next!” And she
overcome a sentiment so natural as abhorrence against relationship with
sister’s wedding. It was exactly a scene, and exactly among people,
exactly what he had been when I knew him in Hertfordshire; but I
an atom of meaning in it.”
from Rosings Park, her Ladyship’s residence.”
her with the gentleman, and he was thinking of her with some
far, and see so much as they had proposed, or at least to see it with
wantonness of power and cruelty. Pitiless as you have been towards me,
Gardiner’s letter, or to relate her own change of sentiment towards
“Your affectionate friend,
ladies would have had difficulty in believing that a man who lived by
“I do, I do like him,” she replied, with tears in her eyes; “I love him.
to come to the point at last? What made you so shy of me, when you
instantly set out to meet him accidentally in the lane. But little had
As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a mile
by distributing it; or I brought with me some food that I had killed,
feelings which would now have promoted its continuance, and would
when it appeared to her rather right than pleasant that she should go
I turned with loathing from the woman who could utter so unfeeling a
he might not have been so perfectly humane, so thoughtful in his
Jane. “Oh, Lizzy, why am I thus singled from my family, and blessed
interval of waiting appeared very long. It was over at last, however.
“Now, I give you fair warning,” shouted the Queen, stamping on the
seemed likely, the advice and entreaty of so near a relation might
Farewell, my dear, excellent Margaret. Heaven shower down blessings on you,
broken and strewed on the ground, some entirely destroyed, others bent,
it?”
appearance of it.”
performs an act of kindness towards him or does him any the most
attended on him as much as my duty would permit. I never saw a more
at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty.”
the church door, and everybody had as much to say or to hear on the
tells you her brother greatly admires Miss Darcy, he is in the smallest
that ours is not a family on which it could be thrown away. When first
dry branch of a tree and danced with fury around the devoted cottage,
The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily. “Consider your
gentle breezes of spring; all joy was but a mockery which insulted my
suppose, as my dear Charlotte informs me, that this licentiousness
in the way of procuring.
work to excite the horror and suspicion of the peasants; and I accordingly
_there_ had appeared very insufficient; and she read it again. Widely
connection and believe yourself bound in honour to fulfil the wishes of
and Elizabeth was thankful to find that they did not see more of her
but it will have no effect on _me_.”
“Perhaps,” said Darcy, “I should have judged better had I sought an
feelings, in the expectation of his arrival, Elizabeth could easily
paroxysm of grief that had seized the stranger overcame his weakened
“Your first position is false. They may wish many things besides his
CHAPTER XXII.
me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance
girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is
it, the application was a something to look forward to.
“That’s none of _your_ business, Two!” said Seven.
“Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!” cried Elizabeth. “That is an
me; though I am far from accusing you of cruelty at present, because I
complain of it as her husband. It was very strange that he should come
were violently set against the match, or violently delighted with it, it
“In _that_ direction,” the Cat said, waving its right paw round, “lives
know a more awful object than Darcy on particular occasions, and in
had any conception of:--its object was nothing less than to secure her
different was the effect of a second perusal. How could she deny that
of the youthful lovers, while in his heart he had formed far other
“My dear, dear Lydia!” she cried: “this is delightful indeed! She will
whenever she did catch a glimpse she saw an expression of general
inhabitants, which consisted of five persons, whose gaunt and scraggy limbs
her to persuade her friend Lizzy to comply with the wishes of her
They were of course all intending to be surprised: but their
while examining the nearer aspect of the house, all her apprehension of
“In conversation with the ladies”                                    198
fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no
better treatment than blows and execration.
at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he
“Slave, I before reasoned with you, but you have proved yourself
[Illustration:
burning within my heart could have enabled me to support. Immense and
melancholy that nothing could dissipate. The image of Clerval was
mighty friends. Still I would penetrate their misty veil and seek them
“Dinah’s our cat. And she’s such a capital one for catching mice you
rest, but returned immediately to Geneva. Even in my own heart I could
sheltered by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her
“I am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me when we met at
verse.”
a fan! Quick, now!” And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off
“LYDIA BENNET.”
“Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of,” cried Colonel
continued, after a pause, on seeing Bingley join the group; “and I doubt
and all wore a smiling appearance. I shut up, as well as I could, in my own
would decide my hopes or realise my fears. The servants were gone to a
was so terribly profound. Company was irksome to me; when alone, I
reflection, and at length it took so fast hold of his mind that at the end
you begin?” said she. “I can comprehend your going on charmingly, when
“I expected this reception,” said the dæmon. “All men hate the
Turning to him, therefore, I said,
father’s lifetime.
her eyes.
promised to comply with my requisition. I am alone and miserable; man
occurrences. You doubtless recollect these papers. Here they are.
a word about it. And so, it is quite certain he is coming?”
Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence. Her mother would
will ever recede. I shall not go away till you have given me the
vengeance of the disappointed fiend, yet I was unable to overcome my
Do you think, at your age, it is right?”
much more pleasure, though not playing half so well; and Mary, at the
the hands of the lovely stranger, and pointing to her brother, made
child’s blindness, added to a student’s thirst for knowledge.
under his rejection, or suspicious that the girl had come
[Illustration]
could be more natural than his asking you again? He could not help
of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and
The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the utmost
“Ah, well! It means much the same thing,” said the Duchess, digging her
Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deeply than he
a true history. It moved every feeling of wonder and awe that the
despondent. I neither spoke nor looked at anyone, but sat motionless,
hot tea upon its nose.
“I am no longer surprised at your knowing _only_ six accomplished women.
“Perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so very
unconcern, “Oh, but there were two or three much uglier in the shop; and
nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool’s errand again.”
if you were _inside_, you might knock, and I could let you out, you
his regiment at the end of a fortnight.
expressively at Lydia; but she, who never heard nor saw anything of
blame. A human being in perfection ought always to preserve a calm and
all be as we were before.”
difficulty._ Persuasion, _relatively faint in tone, and not enthralling
his while. Among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is a
that your friend has drawn an unfortunate--but on this point it will be
kindness was a fresh source of happiness to Jane. But she would not
and mind whose restoration evidently depended upon entire repose.
the probity and honour, of his friend, and is perfectly convinced that
mild a vengeance for thy crimes. Wretched devil! You reproach me with
her confusion had before been adduced as a proof of her guilt, she
friends. Why could not he keep on quarrelling with you, as his father
“Can you wonder that such thoughts transported me with rage? I only
which, with _some_ brotherly affection, makes him a very kind and
she most feared or wished for the appearance of Mr. Darcy, by the
nothing of that. Who should suffer but myself? It has been my own doing,
nothing to me now. She is a handsome girl, about fifteen or sixteen,
fish)—and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It was opened by
“Ay, that is because you have the right disposition. But that
convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her. The expression
her very best politeness, which he returned with as much more,
“Oh yes. Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Philips be placed
discover what it could be and uttered a wild cry of ecstasy when I
less than no time she’d have everybody executed, all round. (It was
Oh, Bromley, of course. If you mention my name at the Bell, you will be
convenient distance for the young ladies, who were usually tempted
along and how the clouds, which sometimes obscure and sometimes rise
continue at least a twelvemonth.
the opinion of all his friends, and make him the contempt of the world.”
subjects on his flappers, “—Mystery, ancient and modern, with
labours, performed by an invisible hand, greatly astonished them; and
most trust, should comprehend all her fears and solicitude on the
desired that I might pass my life on that barren rock, wearily, it is true,
The tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not endure. Memory brought madness
stay of my declining years. You were attached to each other from your
evening with us. He had endeavoured to persuade his father to permit
winter.”
“I commit my cause to the justice of my judges, yet I see no room for
expect a renewal of his love? Is there one among the sex who would not
delirium to a tale otherwise so utterly improbable. I well knew that
relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to
that Charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from possibility
but much oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of her
your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself. I look on the
“You don’t know much,” said the Duchess; “and that’s a fact.”
grateful to her uncle for saying,--
calculation, are heavy indeed! But, perhaps,” added he, stopping in his
unfortunate Muhammadan, who, loaded with chains, waited in despair the
It was a journey of only twenty-four miles, and they began it so early
then getting up walked about the room. Elizabeth was surprised, but
at variance.”--‘There, Mrs. Bennet.’--“My mind, however, is now
“That cannot be; but all that I can say will be of little avail. My
intention, but Mr. Darcy chose to doubt it--or to treat it as a merely
it!—_That_ I won’t, then!—Bill’s to go down—Here, Bill! the master says
of the trees gave the eye power to wander, were many charming views of
particularly agreeable to me. The shutting of the gates regularly at
more continued to read. But, alas! the story which followed, of his
“Pray, Miss Eliza, are not the ----shire militia removed from Meryton?
has been. I do not know that the relation of my disasters will be
all. I assure you that I have long been most heartily ashamed of it.”
should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure. My
confessing at the same time that she loved another, but that he was poor,
“That he should live to be an instrument of mischief disturbs me; in
shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen
in contemplation. Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the
threadbare morality to listen to. Catherine and Lydia had information
“Give your evidence,” said the King; “and don’t be nervous, or I’ll
Another woman confirmed the account of the fishermen having brought the
Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of
which your lady possesses.”
now to be explained. His sisters’ uneasiness had been equally excited
you must acknowledge to be true.”
“No; but it must be done soon.”
fail in ultimately turning to the solid advantage of mankind.” I
precipitance merely to show off before the ladies.”
of such a rule at processions; “and besides, what would be the use of a
dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!” (when she thought it over afterwards,
unvarying society.”
friend, of my thirst for a more intimate sympathy with a fellow mind than
studies. It was thus that I was to be taught to associate evil with
limbs to some untrodden brake, there to gaze upon the arrow which had
in my enterprise.
“What a pity it wouldn’t stay!” sighed the Lory, as soon as it was
master’s favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used to
effect the sight of it would produce upon me. This idea was probably
themselves. We have tried two or three subjects already without success,
“That _proves_ his guilt,” said the Queen.
figure, and his features were moulded with the finest symmetry, yet his
dispositions and irreproachable conduct, about to fail the accused,
overcome. Had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the picture
leaves no hope for doubt. But she will be tried today, and you will
_his_ mother, as well as of hers. While in their cradles we planned the
herself. Such was Miss Lucas’s scheme; and appearances were so
my beloved and only friend; may heaven, in its bounty, bless and
until he or I perish; and then with what ecstasy shall I join my
could refuse him; and though his pride was hurt, he suffered in no other
triumphed over my selfish despair. It was necessary that I should
and, sailing over a calm sea, we may be wafted to a land surpassing in
behind you; and I dare say I shall get husbands for them before the
this sad business of Jane’s? For my part, I am determined never to speak
occasion to pass out; all the light I enjoyed came through the sty, and
be proved; fear nothing, but let your spirits be cheered by the assurance
circumstances might make it more eligible for them to be married
behold this monster, but I feared still more that Henry should see him.
be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a
She answered him with cold civility. He sat down for a few moments, and
first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds
stand up with.”
they returned to the rest of the family. Charlotte did not stay much
Wickham’s alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated
soon as she could. To the girls, who could not listen to their cousin,
Longbourn there would be leisure enough for observation.
sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could
inevitable evils is the duty of us all: the peculiar duty of a young man
come, when, if they had gone to Scotland, which she had never before
of their effects. From my infancy I was imbued with high hopes and a lofty
symptom of resentment, or any unnecessary complaisance.
oddly.”
But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
Mrs. Philips was always glad to see her nieces; and the two eldest, from
and fainter; and in further justification of Mr. Darcy, she could not
“Yours, very sincerely,
this town and inform me where I am?”
“And do you really know all this?” cried Mrs. Gardiner, whose curiosity
with--“And one, too, who had probably been his own companion from
_But the greatness of Mr. Collins could not have been so satisfactorily
but I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds
I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now. When a woman has five
shield him from the frequent notice of either, and was ever anxious to
Mr. Bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal
looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention
sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour, without hearing Miss
Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into her
of the four can come into competition with Elizabeth._
from anyone but myself. He is gone to my father already. Oh, Lizzy, to
that the principles of Agrippa had been entirely exploded and that a modern
conclusion.
amiable companions, continually engaged in endeavouring to bestow mutual
prevailed on to think as they thought, and act as they wished. And their
feet. This idea made me shudder and recalled me to action. I started
happiness that might be expected from the match, the excellent character
to all he had to say of his own happiness, and of Jane’s perfections;
“You are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many
“Please, then,” said Alice, “how am I to get in?”
look was disputable. It was an earnest, steadfast gaze, but she often
As soon as all had ate, and the elder ones paid, the carriage was
you and her mother.--Yours, etc.
nay, for a twelvemonth, she has been given up to nothing but amusement
exactly what they ought, his smiles and his easy address, while he
who ought to have been no worse bred than Darcy.) And she lets the
]
again. It was hardly enough; but it pleased her. She was even sensible
“They found a miserable asylum in the cottage in Germany, where I
“I do not know when I have been more shocked,” said she. “Wickham so
should be quartered in Meryton.
south. He soon reached the summit, and disappeared.
Letter 3
A few days after this visit, Mr. Bingley called again, and alone. His
arranging Miss De Bourgh’s footstool,--that she said, ‘Mr. Collins, you
letter: “I will write instantly and relieve them from the anxiety
despair, and sometimes of revenge, in your countenance that makes me
had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but I must
room for one of you--and, indeed, if the weather should happen to be
to his presentation at St. James’s.
“You will know that soon enough,” replied a man with a hoarse voice.
chance of it.”
not her child, but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman. Her mother was a
one point on which I want your advice. I want to be told whether I
[Illustration]
will wait on him, of course.”
Elizabeth Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of gentlemen, to sit
no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at the
oppose it; for they knew that she had not prudence enough to hold her
“Hearing herself called”
begin.” He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of
answers.”
assure him that her Ladyship was quite well yesterday se’nnight.”
merit, the choicest gift, of the novelist. It sets off his other gifts
Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet.
decided. He placed himself by her.
not err. But when she read and re-read, with the closest attention, the
case, I dare not any longer postpone writing what, during your absence, I
precipitation. In a few moments I saw him in his boat, which shot
at the beginning of this last winter. Justine has just returned to us;
solidity in his reflections which often struck her; and though by no
saw anything of it. To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle
“Oh, but the gentlemen will have Mr. Bingley’s chaise to go to Meryton;
“In vain have I struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be
thank you for explaining it so fully. My faults, according to this
against your will, against your reason, and even against your character?
insensibility she instantly resolved to be false; and his account of the
these rooms I might have now been familiarly acquainted! Instead of
to maintain you when your father is dead. _I_ shall not be able to keep
can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going
could think with pleasure of his own importance, and, unshackled by
and that its ill success might, perhaps, authorize her to seek the other
cottage.
the name of nearly everything there. “That’s the judge,” she said to
review of it; and, as a punishment for him, as well as a possible
“And have you heard from him often?”
Elizabeth was again deep in thought, and after a time exclaimed, “To
“Then you shouldn’t talk,” said the Hatter.
at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually
“You take an eager interest in that gentleman’s concerns,” said Darcy,
make an offer to me.”
Justine, the first hapless victims to my unhallowed arts.
within four hours of their leaving Hunsford they reached Mr. Gardiner’s
was prepared for me in the desert that restored and inspirited me. The
“You are not attending!” said the Mouse to Alice severely. “What are
Lizzy, who this gentleman is? But now it comes out. ‘My motive for
acquainted, if cowardice or carelessness did not restrain our
time to supply him with fishing tackle, and pointing out those parts of
of this wonder; it was two ladies, stopping in a low phaeton at the
natural to one who was entering on a new scene of life, undisturbed by
reflections, “is a very common failing, I believe. By all that I have
one of each other; and deeply was she vexed to find that her mother was
“I can easily believe it. You thought me then devoid of every proper
In pompous nothings on his side, and civil assents on that of his
“Only mustard isn’t a bird,” Alice remarked.
friends were safe from the malignity of the fiend; my father even now
silence: but whatever she said was spoken in so authoritative a tone as
the dashing of the waves. I hailed the darkness that shut Ireland from my
sister, whose constant repinings at the dulness of everything around
history, and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which have
dared no advance, dreading a thousand nameless evils that made me tremble,
“Very well; that reply will do for the present. Perhaps, by-and-by, I
was certain, that in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with _one_
And with these words he hastily left the room, and Elizabeth heard him
CHAPTER LVII.
this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
exhortations of the old man and the lively conversation of the loved
creatures hid their faces in their paws.
]
life? It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny, which is now
she felt a little nervous about this; “for it might end, you know,”
saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.
“You have probably waited impatiently for a letter to fix the date of
expression of mingled incredulity and mortification. She went on,--
Constantinople, for which city he should sail in a few hours. He
The rapture of Lydia on this occasion, her adoration of Mrs. Forster,
Bingley, and takes a prodigious deal of care of him.”
away; and it was some time before his daughters had courage to speak of
place of the March Hare. The Hatter was the only one who got any
engagement. Mrs. Bennet had so carefully provided for the entertainment
perceive that her spirits were affected by it. They were more disturbed,
called away upon business to that horrid man Mr. Stone. And then, you
and liveliness, his mind might have been softened, his manners improved;
“Why did not you all learn? You ought all to have learned. The Miss
feel; you lament only because the victim of your malignity is withdrawn
guest was the subject of their conversation. I ardently desired to
hard to have her taken away from me. They are gone down to Newcastle, a
R. Walton
assisted by Kitty’s hints and additions, endeavour to amuse her
discern any symptom of love; and from the whole of his behaviour to Miss
any design of engaging my affection. It is only that he is blessed with
“Yes; but intricate characters are the _most_ amusing. They have at
she asked the two Harringtons to come: but Harriet was ill, and so Pen
It is not the object of this work to give a description of Derbyshire,
sent abroad into the world for my destruction. I was possessed by a
friend. Over him hung a form which I cannot find words to
I cannot tell; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in
she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which placed them within
though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, I shall
“How should you have liked making sermons?”
The surprise of such an application was great indeed; it was too great
Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt
much as possible against Mr. Darcy, chose for her employment the
descended, but I presently found a great alteration in my sensations.
was happy and beloved, was dear to me, now, in my adversity, became
the crown. William’s conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence
by
[Illustration]
very young woman, and very lately married. A resemblance in good-humour
she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.
and she said,--
trait of integrity or benevolence, that might rescue him from the
himself obliged to accept.
darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me. Sometimes,
always poor from the extravagance of his wife, would have been unable to
the letter, she found little, except the professed affection of the
the eastern shore of the lake, at the distance of rather more than a
husband-hunting. His being neither is exactly consistent with the
Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable—’”
two eldest. By Jane this attention was received with the greatest
and, after a little further resistance on the part of his aunt, her
go.
hours. Now and then they were honoured with a call from her Ladyship,
“We acted with the best intentions.”
“Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn’t one?” Alice asked.
with only having the probable credit of it, which went sorely
of my life appeared to me as a dream; I sometimes doubted if indeed it
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly
never play really well, unless she practises more; and though Mrs.
going to Pemberley, especially when he was least expected.
flirtation, and officers, have been in her head. She has been doing
Queen said—”
embraced the gallant vessel on its course and wrecked it—thus!
quitted the room with my nurse, and in a moment my father entered it.
wonders and in beauty every region hitherto discovered on the habitable
“You’re a _very_ poor _speaker_,” said the King.
and made believe to worry it; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle,
had been divulged and that he should speedily be delivered up to the
our own vanity that deceives us. Women fancy admiration means more than
dined with us the next day, and was to leave town again on
it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small
keep her out of any real mischief; and she is luckily too poor to be an
allegro _or_ allegra _division of the army of Venus. Miss Austen was
on quitting the militia.
nothing.
Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly. Kitty and Lydia take
eagerly calling out, while her daughter read,--
that she might have been Mr. Collins’s wife by this time, had not it
on the opposite side of the river, in the nearest direction; but their
This information, however, startled Mrs. Bennet: she would have been
arrival of the Arabian now infused new life into his soul.
that Wickham (though something of Miss Austen’s hesitation of touch in
fond of beheading people here; the great wonder is, that there’s any
appeared to me ideal bounds, which I should first break through, and
The scene was perfectly solitary; a few boats were returning towards land,
“Lizzy, I never gave _you_ an account of my wedding, I believe. You were
“Why should it?” muttered the Hatter. “Does _your_ watch tell you what
Collins was called from his amiable Charlotte by the arrival of
great and overwhelming that all the steps by which I had been
your uncle acquainted with it, and he first called in Gracechurch
mind should be impressed with no supernatural horrors. I do not ever
him. It is because he will not give himself the trouble.”
“Sure, it does, yer honour: but it’s an arm for all that.”
_To Mrs. Saville, England._
soon as she was in the hall. “Kitty and I are going upstairs to sit in
and the irresistible, disastrous future imparted to me a kind of calm
avalanche or the cracking, reverberated along the mountains, of the
“But you see that Jane,” said her aunt, “does not think so ill of
the little value he put on his own good qualities.
her resigned. As for Elizabeth herself, this invitation was so far from
Lady Lucas and Mrs. Long. Kitty, run down and order the carriage. An
in his grave; and if you are not kind to us, brother, I do not know what
having them all to dine with her.
had doubtless been built for the convenience of some shepherd. This
my representations, and why do you again harden yourself to my complaints?
“Nay,” cried Bingley, “this is too much, to remember at night all the
no one replied. I then moved forward, and a murmuring sound arose from the
William! he was our darling and our pride!”
unexpectedly meet Mr. Darcy. She felt all the perverseness of the
“But consider your daughters. Only think what an establishment it would
felt deeply the degradation of being obliged to answer a charge of
They were forced to conclude, that he had no pleasing intelligence to
arrange my ideas sufficiently to understand the full extent of his
and told her with great exultation, that he had just been so fortunate
end and that I am at length free.”
“We indeed!” cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his
though the diffidence of affection sometimes overcame the hope, that
I read with ardour those works, so full of genius and discrimination,
was considered certain.
bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into
As I applied so closely, it may be easily conceived that my progress
until the great object, which swallowed up every habit of my nature,
Frankenstein, your son, your kinsman, your early, much-loved friend; he
bestowed on him the greatest delight by her music.
“That is as it happens. It does not necessarily follow that a deep,
wondered it had escaped her before. She saw the indelicacy of putting
in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom he had
almost to London, but not beyond: they are certainly not gone to
with hatred for your enemies.
delirium, and that, during my illness, some idea of this kind had presented
bright sun seldom failed to restore me to some degree of composure, and
find great enjoyment in occasionally professing opinions which, in fact,
“Yes,” said Alice, “we learned French and music.”
considered it as the death-warrant of all possibility of common sense
interest than the matter had ever
opinion. It is really too great a violation of decency, honour, and
account myself. But, my dear Frankenstein,” continued he, stopping
little of one’s neighbours. Assistance is impossible; condolence,
on my devoted head. Have I not suffered enough, that you seek to
duty to give the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that she
mistaken indulgence towards such a girl--oh! how acutely did she now
already marked, I will pioneer a new way, explore unknown powers, and
promised every assistance in his power. Elizabeth, though expecting no
“If I had been able,” said she, “to carry my point in going to Brighton
by other men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy her
you know!”
that he thought much higher of her Ladyship than _she_ could do; and it
[Illustration:
extraordinary stretch of belief. It was reasonable that he should feel
my friend as to me. But there were other causes of repugnance; causes
to become of us all? The Collinses will turn us out, before he is cold
building, standing well on rising ground, and backed by a ridge of high
seems to me the most perfect, the most characteristic, the most
already engaged appear to be men on whom I can depend and are certainly
Clerval then put the following letter into my hands. It was from my
Bennet was stirring the fire” (and we know_ how _Mrs. Bennet would have
Mr. Bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her
representing to her the strength of that attachment which in spite of
a time. Pray write instantly, and let me understand it--unless it is,
As soon as they entered the copse, Lady Catherine began in the following
for fifty pounds! No, Kitty, I have at least learnt to be cautious, and
almost tempted to say, that there is a strong appearance of
accents, whilst I comprehended and could imitate almost every word that
become an actor in the busy scene where so many admirable qualities
who feared that if I lost all trace of him I should despair and die,
Such is my journal of what relates to this strange occurrence up to the
hurrying off as if eager to escape from Mrs. Bennet’s civilities.
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.
“It’s the oldest rule in the book,” said the King.
infancy. Suddenly, as I gazed on him, an idea seized me that this
followers of Muhammad. This lady died, but her lessons were indelibly
and by that means, as I told Lady Catherine myself one day, has deprived
indignation. After watching her a little, Fitzwilliam asked her why she
and want to silence this.”
destruction might indeed arrive a few months sooner, but if my torturer
impossible for her to see the word without thinking of Pemberley and its
sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she had
nothing of the effects that such a step might produce. But as to your
former occasions, and once or twice pleased herself with the notion
picked up.”
return to the cottagers, whose story excited in me such various
appeals were lost upon them. And when I received their cold answers
“These are heavy misfortunes,” replied Elizabeth. “But the wife of Mr.
used—and I don’t keep the same size for ten minutes together!”
When this information was given, and they had all taken their seats, Mr.
neighbourhood, except Netherfield. He is not at all liked in
unsullied descent united with riches. A man might be respected with
Heading to Chapter XLIX.                                             368
a Christian, but never to admit them in your sight, or allow their
that was sufficient for me.
party.
from whence they were to set out early the next morning. The separation
recovered herself, and a look of sorrowful affection seemed to attest
over it immediately. It had better have happened to _you_, Lizzy; you
term miniature in its restricted sense, and must think rather of Memling
his affection might be re-animated, and the influence of his friends
in my life saw anything more elegant than their dresses. I dare say the
A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses
jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all
by nor herself understood the cottagers. They made many signs which I
wretchedness. Yet it is in your power to recompense me, and deliver
benefactors of your species, your names adored as belonging to brave men
“for nobody is on my side, nobody takes part with me; I am cruelly used,
library.
this time with the words “DRINK ME,” but nevertheless she uncorked it
thought that my former exclamation was a momentary return of delirium,
allow him to be tormented by their idle curiosity, in a state of body
many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes
amusement; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no
setting out till a fortnight later in July, and must be in London again
what Jane felt for Bingley. Her astonishment at his coming--at his
As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being
“Such as vanity and pride.”
that—only the March Hare said—”
seen him so pleasant as this morning.
panes, and my candle was nearly burnt out, when, by the glimmer of the
he had displayed on the opening of his existence and the subsequent blight
Mr. Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sister’s proficiency.
I am interrupted. What do these sounds portend? It is midnight; the
picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
between distress and diversion. Mrs. Bennet and Kitty walked off, and as
“I didn’t mean it!” pleaded poor Alice. “But you’re so easily offended,
Elizabeth particularly, who knew that her mother owed to the latter the
was in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it
with an air of decided fashion. His brother-in-law, Mr. Hurst, merely
any intention of speaking, Miss Lucas defied her friend to mention such
“You have guessed right; I have lately been so deeply engaged in one
with respectful compliments to your lady and daughters, your
had been designed to turn his thoughts from Elizabeth, seemed to have
will sleep in peace, or if it thinks, it will not surely think thus.
She was at least free from the offence of Mr. Darcy’s further notice:
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging
should put Miss Austen as near to Swift in some ways, as I have put her
and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns.”
dullest, most threadbare topic might be rendered interesting by the
[Illustration]
generation and life; nay, more, I became myself capable of bestowing
circumstance when you were in Kent?”
were often prolonged by the successive objects that presented
arrangement. He would scarcely be ten pounds a year the loser, by the
unwillingness to leave Clerval in a strange place, before he had become
politeness which had marked their behaviour to their guests. Darcy said
(and she tried to curtsey as she spoke—fancy _curtseying_ as you’re
“La! You are so strange! But I must tell you how it went off. We were
appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight. Their eyes
reduced him to his present state of poverty--comparative poverty. You
determined at one time that the memory of these evils should die with
Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. “What a
“Give your evidence,” said the King.
you will never get a husband at all--and I am sure I do not know who is
Fortunately the books were written in the language, the elements of which I
Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his
side; and had anything of the kind been perceptible, you must be aware
[Illustration]
Elizabeth thanked him from her heart, and then walked towards a table
see my native land, perhaps, for many years. I am, however, in good
affront, seated himself at another table with Mr. Bennet, and prepared
me. A change indeed had taken place in me; my health, which had
things or the inner spirit of nature and the mysterious soul of man
at Rosings; a comparison that did not at first convey much
were directed to Longbourn instead of my own neighbourhood, where I
arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of
credit to his assertions, in one instance, which she had been obliged to
me out into arguments, which he supported with great ingenuity.
“Yes; I do comprehend a great deal in it.”
prudential light, it is certainly a very good match for her.”
Elizabeth was prepared to see him in his glory; and she could not help
In the gallery there were many family portraits, but they could have
she could not help crying out,--
acknowledged it to Lady Catherine frankly and openly.”
sounded, and soon my mind was filled with one thought, one conception,
since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt
“I have said no such thing. I am only resolved to act in that manner,
I shall depart for the latter town in a fortnight or three weeks; and my
She could settle it in no way that gave her pleasure.
expressed most concisely, he then delivered on paper his perfect
certain fearlessness very uncommon in heroines of her type and age.
book and said, “Ah! Cornelius Agrippa! My dear Victor, do not waste
Destiny was too potent, and her immutable laws had decreed my utter and
“Certainly, sir; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue amongst
sensibility.
the earliest assurance of it; and, after making his bow as the carriage
but the belief of your being a party concerned would have allowed
“Who cares for you?” said Alice, (she had grown to her full size by
A strange multiplicity of sensations seized me, and I saw, felt, heard,
close by her.
The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round
hand. In the day, I believe, he worked sometimes for a neighbouring
that evening my opinion of all parties was confirmed, and every
her nephew which _she_ had refused to give. But, unluckily for her
Justine assumed an air of cheerfulness, while she with difficulty
first copying and then retailing moral sentiments, of playing and
liked a red coat myself very well--and, indeed, so I do still at my
otherwise.’”
“I have an excessive regard for Jane Bennet,--she is really a very sweet
Pemberley.
the pretence of a journey and concealed himself, with his daughter, in
deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are. There is an expression of
very difficult. My mother was in hysterics; and though I endeavoured to
Continuing thus, I came at length opposite to the inn at which the various
“Not yet,” replied Jane. “But now that my dear uncle is come, I hope
“Wandering spirits, if indeed ye wander, and do not rest in your narrow
After the ceremony was performed a large party assembled at my
a traveller in want of a little rest; you would greatly oblige me if you
assembled, and where her appearance created a great deal of surprise.
was due to seniority; and for the first evening _she_ was his settled
twelve-month’s abode in the family might have prompted. After
is generally melancholy and despairing, and sometimes he gnashes his
clergyman; and it affected them in no other way than as a piece of news
palatable to you as it seems to be at present; that you actually
was a being possessing faculties it would be vain to cope with. After a
was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this
manner. Observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he
it must be my uncle’s doings! Generous, good man, I am afraid he has
success she expected. He was resolutely silent, however; and, from a
her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago
pleasant, I can tell you, to be making new acquaintances every day; but
be most welcome, she was almost ashamed to find that her uncle and aunt
It is enough to know they are discovered: I have seen them
whiskers!”
visit. The gentlemen arrived early; and, before Mrs. Bennet had time to
the horrors of my secret toil as I dabbled among the unhallowed damps
breeding; but her contemplation of one stranger was soon put an end to
little suited to recommend them; but still more was she grieved for the
it is not true. A great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood
by herself. The path just admitted three. Mr. Darcy felt their rudeness,
marriage, because I knew that his conduct had not been always quite
hay. The sun sank beneath the horizon as we landed, and as I touched
thinking. There is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of
little door, had vanished completely.
but, exerting herself vigorously to repel the ill-natured attack, she
Alice considered a little, and then said “The fourth.”
“Did you go by the village of Kympton?”
little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up
The pepper when he pleases!”
[Illustration:
from anguish to pleasure. “Is my father indeed come? How kind, how
might be supposed to have inhabited. The spirit of elder days found a
either.”
to dwell on the praise of which you are so eminently deserving. He was a
door and with quick step pass her towards the staircase, than she
and was now absolutely resolved on being ordained, if I would present
Darcy of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with
scope for his spirit of enterprise. The Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit
regiment, to accompany her to Brighton. This invaluable friend was a
indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.
naturally returned to all his former indolence. His letter was soon
judgment and feelings to decide. “Yes,” said Elizabeth,
Rome, and Rome—no, _that’s_ all wrong, I’m certain! I must have been
acted. Regard for my sister’s credit and feelings prevented any public
“I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend
When I had concluded my narration, I said, “This is the being whom I
An obstacle that came between
sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
dishonourable elopement with her, I am not able to judge; for I know
He is now much recovered from his illness and is continually on the deck,
his commission! So much the better. It will save me a world of trouble
“_You_ began the evening well, Charlotte,” said Mrs. Bennet, with civil
how I should like to be married before any of you! and then I would
as the others were all going to sit down to cards, she could not be
CHAPTER LX.
to more than usual solemnity of manner; and with a most important aspect
“I beg your pardon. I will try again. At present I am not in love with
town, I was obliged to cross the lake in a boat to arrive at Plainpalais.
soon went away. But before she had been three minutes in her own room,
rendezvous. I may be absent a month or two; but do not interfere with
I hope it will soon be increased by seeing her quite well.”
and desert heaths; and he now came to mark my progress and claim the
_is_ that to be done, I wonder?” As she said this, she came suddenly
happy! I am sure I shan’t get a wink of sleep all night. I knew how it
“On looking up”                                                      228
“He rode a black horse”
Four weeks passed away, and Jane saw nothing of him. She endeavoured to
her praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to her sister how very much
Beautiful, beautiful Soup!”
always sure of leisure and tranquillity; and though prepared, as he told
say? In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself?
branches of physical science from which a naval adventurer might derive
previously been my laboratory. But these cares of Clerval were made of
nothing to do.’ Said the mouse to the cur, ‘Such a trial, dear
was not in the least necessary there should be any notice on either
she was out of sight: then it chuckled. “What fun!” said the Gryphon,
through the wood with a stag-like swiftness. Oh! What a miserable
Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (“That’s Bill,” thought
not really believe me to entertain any design of alarming you; and I
his grief only became more deep and rankling when he had leisure for
heard of the fugitives.
willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.
shut up in their hovels, and only a few of the most hardy ventured forth to
acquaintance in common; and, though Wickham had been little there since
such a woman as Mrs. Forster, and the probability of her being yet more
On reaching the house, they were shown through the hall into the saloon,
person was the chief object of horror with those who had formerly
escaped his observation; whichever were the case, though her opinion of
Hugh Thomson
of the wildest rage as he shrieked out imprecations on his persecutor.
their marriage put an end to all real affection for her. Respect,
of her attachment to Mr. Darcy.
the number of changes she had gone through that day.
observed to her, at a moment when the others were talking together, and
_would_ have gone on, if you had been left to yourself. I wonder when
her judgment controverted. She inquired into Charlotte’s domestic
German to enable them to chip the classical shell. Miss Austen was an
forgotten to ask.”
parents were possessed by the very spirit of kindness and indulgence.
invite him to sit by herself. On entering the room, he seemed to
and habits and endeavoured by arguments deduced from the feelings of his
on. Mr. Darcy asked why he did not marry your sister at once.
my history briefly but with firmness and precision, marking the dates with
ambition.
been my food and pleasant rest for so long a space were now become a
“Well, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet, when Elizabeth had read the note
I closed not my eyes that night. My internal being was in a state of
CHAPTER XXI.
disposed towards everyone, had been scarcely ever clouded. Elizabeth
together; and, fourthly, that the match might be broken off. Two
Miss Bingley’s eyes were instantly turned towards Darcy, and she had
“By the bye Charles, are you really serious in meditating a dance at
time,” she said, “than waste it in asking riddles that have no
an excellent library.”
of cucumber-frames there must be!” thought Alice. “I wonder what
smiled at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants.
Chapter 22
who was not a great walker, could go no farther, and thought only of
to attain, breathe a degree of renovating warmth which I had not
which he had allotted to me. Yes, he had followed me in my travels; he
before him, and constantly bowing whenever Miss De Bourgh looked that
enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind. I tried to conceal this
The young man was constantly employed out of doors, and the girl in
the house and take some refreshment; but this was declined, and they
me; I cannot go alone.” The idea of this visit was torture to me, yet
passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed to get
Tears streamed from my eyes. The rain had ceased for a moment, and I saw
understand him, but smiled. He assisted her to dismount, and
placed in my pocket. But here also I am checked. I believe that I have no
humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted
boat in which I had just landed.
father!” She could have added, “A young man, too, like _you_, whose very
had merely kept the necessary terms without forming at it any useful
miserable unless it were the dictate of your own free choice. Even now
she could hardly suppress a smile at his being now seeking the
“How I long to see her again! I never met with anybody who delighted me
“Did Mr. Darcy give you his reasons for this interference?”
long a journey, yet how often have I regretted not being able to
Having conquered the violence of his feelings, he appeared to despise
as, upon the whole, I hope will give you satisfaction. Soon after
before that time; but of this I could not judge.
excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted _there_. You dare not,
inferences, however, were plainly deduced from the whole: one, that
“Is it possible?” cried Elizabeth, when she had finished. “Can it be
took place. With astonishment did Elizabeth see that her new
she will never deserve to be happy! What a meeting for her, when she
The period of expectation was now doubled. Four weeks were to pass away
what she felt, Elizabeth, on finishing this letter, instantly seized the
created_?”
I am not certain that I consider her marrying Mr. Collins as the wisest
“That _was_ a narrow escape!” said Alice, a good deal frightened at the
Queen jumped up and bawled out, ‘He’s murdering the time! Off with his
of her acquittal.”
may still be misled by passion.
Frankenstein—more, far more, will I achieve; treading in the steps
CHAPTER XIX.
contain a renewal of his offers, she had formed no expectation at all of
the neighbourhood.”
myself, I should not pay him half so much deference. I declare I do not
time some ice-rock concealed it with its intervening crags. I indeed
certain not inhuman or unamiable cruelty. It is the custom with those
sensations had by this time become distinct, and my mind received every
communication, yet I could not endure that he should renew his grief by
her the very day after her reaching Pemberley; and was, consequently,
punctuality, both Kitty and Lydia looking out of a dining-room upstairs.
their minds were more vacant than their sisters’, and when nothing
“No, I thank you,” she replied, endeavouring to recover herself. “There
frequently invited her to come and stay with her, with the promise of
the grass, weighed down by horror and despair.
decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to. On that head,
Lady Lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a
said to herself; “the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and
“that Miss Bennet shall receive every possible attention while she
often does, because there is an excuse for it. One cannot wonder that so
to Elizabeth again, he walked away.
“_That_ you certainly shall.”
a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror.” (For, with all
that when there has been _one_ inter-marriage, she may have less trouble
obsoletenesses of phrase and manner give one or two of her early
[Illustration]
really love him quite well enough? Oh, Lizzy! do anything rather than
letter from him: it told them, that on his arrival he had immediately
let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way
girls than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune, which
Even if they were to leave Europe and inhabit the deserts of the new world,
the will of others. My courage always rises with every attempt to
their virtues and to deprecate the vices of mankind.
and vanity. She has been allowed to dispose of her time in the most idle
reflections, I thought that if I could bestow animation upon lifeless
will favour me with your company.”
evenings may do a great deal.”
murderer of William, of Justine, and of Clerval. Sometimes I entreated my
petulance and acrimony of her manner in rejecting him, and all the
about a whiting before.”
that she talked as much as ever; but her mind was so busily engaged,
pleased with yourself you will think of us with affection, and we shall
tried today, and I hope, I sincerely hope, that she will be acquitted.”
satiated in my life than in my destruction. But it was not so; thou
“That evidence,” he observed, “was hardly required in so glaring a
(she was obliged to say “creatures,” you see, because some of them were
hereafter her own. He had certainly formed such a plan; and without
to consider whether I am just to you or not. Begone! Relieve me from
moment, but your own confession.”
treasures known to few besides myself. I have described myself as always
find it; not equal to Lydia’s for him. She had scarcely needed her
against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the
defective. The idea of the olive branch perhaps is not wholly new, yet I
extreme. She did not fear her father’s opposition, but he was going to
somewhat of a trial to the latter method, in her partiality for Wickham,
The ladies of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield. The visit
delight is in death and wretchedness? Begone! I am firm, and your
sat close to her for half an hour without once opening his lips.”
carriage.”
but not revoke the sentence passed upon my wretched victim. She
pain, I vowed eternal hatred and vengeance to all mankind. But the
Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it. She
doesn’t suit my throat!” and a Canary called out in a trembling voice
glass table. “Now, I’ll manage better this time,” she said to herself,
their last lively scene in Hunsford Parsonage, the difference, the
principle and at another as all that can be conceived of noble and
fortunate country, does not include the idea of ignorance and a
some books. I eagerly seized the prize and returned with it to my hovel.
as mine—mine to protect, love, and cherish. All praises bestowed on
or courtiers, or three of her own children.
“That would be a good scheme,” said Elizabeth, “if you were sure that
country neighbourhood. “I assure you there is quite as much of _that_
tongue before the servants, while they waited at table, and judged it
increasing.”
still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth! What do I not
boast; and so fervently did she value his remembrance, and prefer him to
had gazed on him while unfinished; he was ugly then, but when those
My affection for my guest increases every day. He excites at once my
“I gazed on my victim, and my heart swelled with exultation and hellish
that, could Wickham be prevailed on to marry his daughter, it would be
herself at liberty to do it, unless there were something very
“When the party entered”                                              12
propriety, not a pleasure to himself. He seldom appeared really
puzzling it all is! I’ll try if I know all the things I used to know.
knowledge. They had left to us, as an easier task, to give new names
consoles your unhappy friend.
She grew absolutely ashamed of herself. Of neither Darcy nor Wickham
ever had anything from him except a few presents. Well! I am so happy.
going to begin again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog
there had been no formality, no stiffness; he had soon felt acquainted
“You have a very small park here,” returned Lady Catherine, after a
might have prevented it! _I_ who knew what he was. Had I but explained
Heading to Chapter X.                                                 60
writer, that could give her any comfort. Miss Darcy’s praise occupied
conjecture as to the cause of this, but yesterday an idea struck me,
folly and assurance, by a situation of such double danger as a
Collins’s side, and as many bows on Sir William’s, they departed. As
Illustrations by
frightened I did not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away;
CHAPTER VI.    Pig and Pepper
card-table in the evening, every such entertainment was the counterpart
had been compromised accordingly.”
understand what they said, as they spoke the language of the country,
“From the former. I had narrowly observed her, during the two visits
day additional ideas. My eyes became accustomed to the light and to
countenance betrayed the secret to Elizabeth. She was very earnest to
fears. I did not believe her to be indifferent because I wished it; I
while you have been here.”
regret that he came.
cheered.
acquaintance, as to a real, strong attachment. Pray, how _violent was_
“Well, if I must, I must,” the King said, with a melancholy air, and,
mother talked on of her dislike of Mr. Darcy, and her resolution to be
led by a short gravel walk to the house, amidst the nods and smiles of
certainly did not hate him. No; hatred had vanished long ago, and she
to the company generally, “You are all pardoned.” “Come, _that’s_ a
time make their past imprudence forgotten.”
no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married.”
day when I received life!’ I exclaimed in agony. ‘Accursed creator!
the inheritance of Elizabeth had been restored to her by the Austrian
undone, and can be of no real advantage to yourself or anyone else?”
returned to his civil inquiries after her family. Amazed at the
friend, indignation was rekindled within me. “Wretch!” I said.
not many in which his wife did not think it necessary to go likewise;
unavoidably acquainted with every particular of these transactions. If
had yet seen, and speaking of the latter, especially, with gentle but
The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling
of the animal would elude all pursuit, even if I were so far credited
how to set about it; and while she was peering about anxiously among
again to-morrow evening. In such an exigence my uncle’s advice and
the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they
seeing her well guarded from cold, attended her into the drawing-room,
very great ill-usage, and most painful regrets at his being what he is.
little food or rest: I required kindness and sympathy; but I did not
“Felix trembled violently as he said this. He and his companion
magnificent; and the lovely Isis, which flows beside it through meadows
surprised them. Mr. Darcy related the mistake which had occasioned his
reach of the woods to which they were approaching: but it was some time
the family, worked hard for knowledge and accomplishments, was always
from?”
which, in proving of what importance she was to him, made his affection
the which thou owest me. Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every
_red_ rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen
the assembly had not been calculated to please in general; and with more
that, abandon or commiserate me, as you shall judge that I deserve.
Elizabeth felt herself completely taken in. She had fully proposed being
and her daughters out of the house as soon as Mr. Bennet was dead. She
discourse; I learned and applied the words, _fire, milk, bread,_ and
pounds?”
at most a year, was the period contemplated. One paternal kind
appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after
posterity.”
moment like a wild beast, screamed “Off with her head! Off—”
with unwearying civility, that they were perfectly needless.
distinguished no part of the scene. Her thoughts were all fixed on that
greatest share. The vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had
right. My father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how
my dear sir, to console yourself as much as possible, to throw off
the determined air of following his own inclination, and when she ceased
head!’”
therefore, obliged to submit, and they took their way towards the house
labours of men of genius, however erroneously directed, scarcely ever
sister as the servant was approaching the door. Jane looked a little
Lydia’s intention of walking to Meryton was not forgotten: every sister
confusion; and, after listening a moment, she heard somebody running
the Lakes, and substitute a more contracted tour; and, according to the
If she should push the matter on,
“is my master--and very like him. It was drawn at the same time as the
he was prevailed on to overlook the offence, and seek a reconciliation;
from Colonel Forster, to inform us that she was gone off to Scotland
had been long yawning at the repetition of delights which she saw no
mighty and terrific trial of your courage, you shrink away and are content
my fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and of enjoyment. Once
I took the hand of Elizabeth. “You are sorrowful, my love. Ah! If
“Two lines!” cried the Mock Turtle. “Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on;
which I was engaged. During my first experiment, a kind of
The tumult of Elizabeth’s mind was allayed by this conversation. She
decorations of my tragedy. Through my father’s exertions a part of
agitation and anguish was extreme during the whole trial. I believed
“If you knew Time as well as I do,” said the Hatter, “you wouldn’t talk
applied.
“With all my heart: I will buy Pemberley itself, if Darcy will sell it.”
refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise.
the strength of his attachment.
And beat him when he sneezes:
the door before the children shrieked, and one of the women fainted.
the old subject of his grievances, and she was in no humour to indulge
coming to Netherfield, to Longbourn, and voluntarily seeking her again,
hired a mule, as the more sure-footed and least liable to receive
“They all can,” said the Duchess; “and most of ’em do.”
Bennet had slept ill, and though up, was very feverish, and not well
little bottle that stood near the looking-glass. There was no label
to my recollection. I grasped his hand, and in a moment forgot my horror
in your heart you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously
Bennet, Diana Vernon, Argemone Lavington, Beatrix Esmond, and Barbara
wondered at, ignorant as you previously were of everything concerning
dishonourable to the stability of her lover, she could not prevent its
highest distinction. A few months before my arrival they had lived in
stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister’s infamous
in the marvellous, intertwined in all my projects, which hurries me out
beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches, soon collected
disgust? God, in pity, made man beautiful and alluring, after his own
mind. If this rule were always observed; if no man allowed any pursuit
exercise of determining the reason of its absence where it is not. In
but I was unable to contain myself. It was not joy only that possessed
time for dinner!”
these papers can come into your possession.
along the open grove which edged that side of the park, where there was
and persuasive, and once his words had even power over my heart; but
compassion, spoke likewise restraint, said,--
only have discovered whether he had a good appetite; but you must
lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the disclosure. She dared not
“With extras?” asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.
its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, “So you
“And what arts did he use to separate them?”
people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each
of course she will be always at Pemberley with you.”
upon the earth, from which all men fled and whom all men disowned?
leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has been unfolded.”
that I felt sensations of a peculiar and overpowering nature; they were
should resolve to quit Netherfield, I should probably be off in five
where she was welcomed by her two friends with many professions of
Jane, and must, at the same time, so highly gratify whatever of her own
“Oh, papa, what news? what news? have you heard from my uncle?”
the servant, therefore, she commissioned him, though in so breathless an
if true, must overthrow every cherished opinion of his worth, and which
“You are very cruel,” said her sister, “you will not let me smile, and
assure you there are many amiable young women. But the fact is, that
a military career in a distant country, but Ernest never had your
for the indulgence of some music. Miss Bingley moved with alacrity to
twice; and she was the only creature in the room that he asked a second
behind us and was driven with force towards the north; a breeze sprang from
morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the
Bennet perhaps surpassing the rest; though when the first tumult of joy
“I thank you for my share of the favour,” said Elizabeth; “but I do not
that may direct you if you succeed in your undertaking and console you
difference should be perceived in her at all, and was really persuaded
completion of my promise and quickly availed myself of the letters of
“But soon,” he cried with sad and solemn enthusiasm, “I
uncle and aunt, she stayed with them only long enough to hear their
called out,--
“To make herself agreeable to all”                                   321
instruction and amusement. He was also pursuing an object he had long
Darcy and the amusements of London, might be too much, she feared, for
along, and how often especially Miss De Bourgh drove by in her phaeton,
but followed him as his shadow, to protect him from the fancied rage of
chiefly lived, but his studying the law was a mere pretence; and being
First, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the
again, I considered whether my marriage would hasten my fate. My
lost. As soon as I get to town, I shall go to my brother, and make him
connected him nearer with virtue than any other feeling. But we are none
to conclude that an actual Mr. Collins was impossible or non-existent at
me--I believe it will be better that he should not. I see the imprudence
more to give.
treating of natural philosophy which he desired me to procure, and
own, such as her satire of Mrs. Musgrove’s self-deceiving regrets over
fool in having exposed my person to the horror of his children. I
already there for the winter: I wish I could hear that you, my dearest
saw around me nothing but a dense and frightful darkness, penetrated by
that all the jurors were writing down “stupid things!” on their slates,
horses?”
this time.) “You’re nothing but a pack of cards!”
first application, and, perhaps, you have even now said as much to
However, this bottle was _not_ marked “poison,” so Alice ventured to
specked the water, and now and then the gentle breeze wafted the sound
lively type seems to lie first in her being distinctly clever--almost
Elizabeth’s courage did not fail her. She had heard nothing of Lady
the sense of guilt, which hurried me away to a hell of intense tortures
the uneasiness of this amiable family: it was poverty, and they
obliged to walk about the room, while Elizabeth tried to unite civility
[Illustration]
“Take whatever you like, and get away.”
and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly
other table. Lady Catherine was generally speaking--stating the mistakes
sustained me: my labours would soon end, and I believed that exercise and
doubt of his being present had never occurred to her. The certainty of
dreams. I thought I saw Elizabeth, in the bloom of health, walking in
“I _did_ hear, too, that there was a time when sermon-making was not so
more rational if conversation instead of dancing made the order of the
There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents, but
sister; and she was more grieved than astonished to hear, in reply to
herself, “it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes
into a decline, which at first increased her irritability, but she is
almost a week after the gentlemen’s arrival, that they were honoured by
“As often as I can. But you know married women have never much time for
brothers and sister. Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Moritz
country have produced simpler and happier manners than those which
nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other,
yet—it’s rather curious, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what
in my arms had ceased to be the Elizabeth whom I had loved and cherished.
decorums which other people may observe. If _she_ does not object to it,
all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with
I now made arrangements for my journey, but one feeling haunted me
[Illustration]
visit, as they returned, except what had particularly interested them
minutely described in these papers every step you took in the progress
ice or frozen by the eternal frosts.
man. “I have seen,” he said, “the most beautiful scenes
having such a master.”
“And Mary King is safe!” added Elizabeth; “safe from a connection
Elizabeth, to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all this,
There is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings.”
in my bosom.
rising from the sea; I had not sufficient light for my employment, and I
for backgammon.
always so much.”
My life, as it passed thus, was indeed hateful to me, and it was during
which he carried, at my body and fired. I sank to the ground, and my
“That is also my victim!” he exclaimed. “In his murder my
triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in Lydia’s last letter
The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by Darcy; but Sir
if she were, to make the confession to him which I have since made.”
“But depend upon it, Mr. Collins,” she added, “that Lizzy shall be
victims await their destiny; but you, Clerval, my friend, my
“A little sea-bathing would set me up for ever.”
When breakfast was over, they were joined by the sisters; and Elizabeth
further by his account of their present quarters, and the very great
and intelligence, which might supply it among themselves if there were
opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock. From the side where I
“Oh, certainly,” said Elizabeth, though burning with curiosity; “we will
like an evil spirit, for I had committed deeds of mischief beyond
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its
telescope.”
apologizing for his intrusion, without any previous acquaintance with
Darcy had walked away to another part of the room. She followed him with
forms, opened before me, and I began to ascend the mountain that
Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first
of her sisters were uttered without being heard.
certain that they must desire the connection as much as she could do. It
said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as
officers: but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get
“It all came different!” the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. “I
grow watchful with anxious thoughts, when a strange sight suddenly
celebrated for its sincerity and frankness; and in a cause of such
accordingly I told Clerval that I wished to make the tour of Scotland
All this was acknowledged to Mrs. Gardiner; and, after relating the
No, there were no tears. “If you’re going to turn into a pig, my dear,”
“His manners are very different from his cousin’s.”
“I certainly have not the talent which some people possess,” said Darcy,
county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three
dare say it would succeed if Miss de Bourgh were out of the way. But, my
up and down the room, endeavouring to compose herself, saw such looks of
admiration of his taste, that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly
what occasion Justine Moritz entered our family? Probably you do not;
Bingley she had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period
the waters rolled and swelled beneath me, became every moment more ominous
being so silly!
By Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley they were noticed only by a courtesy; and
procession,” thought she, “if people had all to lie down upon their
thither and shall seek the most northern extremity of the globe; I shall
answer. “They’re done with blacking, I believe.”
“For some days I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place,
He then asked her to walk into the house--but she declared herself not
“The winter advanced, and an entire revolution of the seasons had taken
nothing to reproach him with. Thank God I have not _that_ pain. A little
to make such an awkward business of it. Did you see it?”
impression on them. Elizabeth would not observe her; and when at last
“I leave it to yourself to determine,” said Mr. Bennet.
have been occupied in examining my past conduct; nor do I find it blamable.
question,” added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and looked
forehead ache!”
composition was defective: we must always remember that hardly
angrily: “really you are very dull!”
nonsense!”
conducted her to Geneva and placed her under the protection of a
me on every side, the sound of the river raging among the rocks, and
gives me more pleasure than I have for some time experienced. If you
it could not console her for the contempt which had been thus
of her life.”
mention that gentleman. Her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly
occasion; no one was to be put in competition with him. He did
was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight: “but it doesn’t
Solon, and Lycurgus, in preference to Romulus and Theseus. The
gone through the whole letter, though scarcely knowing anything of the
being impertinent myself, I shall soon grow afraid of him.”
soul and allowed it to soar from the obscure world to light and joy.
compliment on her wit and vivacity; and though more astonished than
should want one of my girls, I shall not say nay to him; and I thought
so splendid a dinner, might not wholly overpower them.
“No--I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did.”
If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, Elizabeth’s
TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE, LONDON.
what she says.”
prevented his encountering the inconveniences and perhaps dangers of so
“Oh, certainly,” cried his faithful assistant, “no one can be really
she lay awake two whole hours, endeavouring to make them out. She
next day, “you will give your mother-in-law a few hints, when this
traversed the streets without any clear conception of where I was or
home and commence your labours; I shall watch their progress with
]
“Did not you? _I_ did for you. But that is one great difference between
Lydia; but it is not every author, even of genius, who would have
this peopled earth.
too, do you? Their manners are not equal to his.”
agreeable.”
family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to your
heaven, and by the fire of love that burns my heart, that if you grant my
made no answer.
CHAPTER II.    The Pool of Tears
Elizabeth’s impatience to acquaint Jane with what had happened could no
glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure him of my
behaviour in Derbyshire.
“because they lessen from day to day.”
that I was deceived by no vision and that Clerval, my friend and dearest
the gentlemen accompanied him. Charlotte had seen them from her
would judge differently in the affair.”
eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether anything had been
these three weeks.”
the road; I heard the rumbling thunder of the falling avalanche and
surprised by your application; I did not expect it from _you_.
to secure it. I was easily led by the sympathy which he evinced to use the
family! how shall I bear so much happiness?”
personal invitation for the long expected ball at Netherfield, which was
of Derbyshire to which he belonged. They had, therefore, many
was not seated by her: perhaps that was the reason of his silence; but
of men.
that attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself “Then I’ll
years of age. He had apparently been strangled, for there was no sign of
across the park. Every park has its beauty and its prospects; and
than a glance from Jane invited her to follow her upstairs. When they
murder, had discovered in her pocket the picture of my mother, which
pleased. His wish of introducing his sister to her was a compliment of
she saw who it was, she approached me and said, “Dear sir, you are very
just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at
The name of my unfortunate and murdered friend was an agitation too
which satisfied her; his style was not penitent, but haughty. It was all
silence as either Mrs. Hurst or Miss Bingley; and even Lydia was too
she had condemned and upbraided him, her anger was turned against
recollected her interest in the affair; and the very circumstance which
deeply affected. Not Lydia only, but all were concerned in it; and after
end without a quarrel. Come as soon as you can on the receipt of
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance.
work of your own hands. Shall I respect man when he condemns me? Let him
“He is, indeed: but considering the inducement, my dear Miss Eliza, we
“Go on with the next verse,” the Gryphon repeated impatiently: “it
come to the end: then stop.”
and my endeavours for contentment. I have one secret, Elizabeth, a
scheme, of time, of subject, of literary convention, are, of course,
paused in his music, and I conjectured by his manner that he inquired
lover. When first he came in, he had spoken to her but little, but every
Colonel Fitzwilliam entered into conversation directly, with the
know why Felix appeared so miserable and Agatha so sad. I thought
delight in the prospect of their relationship. They shook hands with
calmness, if he really intended to meet them. For a few moments, indeed,
between the parties?”
only companions. How can you, who long for the love and sympathy of man,
for an answer. Mrs. Bennet’s eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was
her face.
letter, and I feel my heart glow with an enthusiasm which elevates me
turn I see the same figure—her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung
tenfold by being an obstacle to your wishes. Ah! Victor, be assured
“New Woman” about her, has by nature what the best modern (not “new”)
Clerval, who had watched my countenance as I read this letter, was
it was allied to an expression more full of sensibility and intellect.
exciting. I often referred the several situations, as their similarity
authority for the apprehension of the murderer.
of the mild voice of De Lacey, the gentle eyes of Agatha, and the
courteous.
“You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a knowledge of my
She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow,
court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse. “Fourteenth of March, I _think_ it
The executioner’s argument was, that you couldn’t cut off a head unless
glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice’s
and all of them bowed low.
My father calmed me with assurances of their welfare and endeavoured, by
had saved but a very small sum of money from the wreck of his fortunes, but
Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its face
be a subject for pity; we must reserve that for his miserable
something for fortune and figure.”
continued her mother; “but at the same time, Mr. Bingley, it is very
“_You_ are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room,” said Mr.
barricade the valley. The abrupt sides of vast mountains were before
on her. She hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of
anything had happened.) So she began again: “Où est ma chatte?” which
He shook his head. “I wish I could call her amiable. It gives me pain to
“No, no; stay where you are”
two years. During all that period she appeared to me the most amiable and
Constantinople to join him. He was tried and condemned to death. The
“What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him? I am
have thought it? And is it really true? Oh, my sweetest Lizzy! how rich
“Oh, if that is all, I have a very poor opinion of young men who live in
cottage in the sun for a few minutes, leaning on the arm of the youth.
she was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Mr. Darcy, and
have been a noble creature in his better days, being even now in wreck
really loved me, and nothing but a persuasion of _my_ being indifferent
daughter, let us come to a right understanding. Into _one_ house in this
“It proves nothing of the sort!” said Alice. “Why, you don’t even know
court, by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once.
Bingley would return to Netherfield, and answer every wish of her heart.
in a pleased tone.
hearts of your enemies by my tears and prayers. You shall not die!
gradually relinquished all his public functions; and immediately after
misery which nothing but the eternal sentiment of a just retribution
themselves being witnesses and testimonies of my triumph. Why not
to town; and without any intention of coming back again. You shall hear
Mrs. Bennet’s eyes sparkled. “A gentleman and a stranger! It is Mr.
The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the
“My father has gone to London, and Jane has written to beg my uncle’s
selfish being all my life, in practice, though not in principle. As a
disagreeable fellows.” Some of them were to dine with the Philipses the
reply, that they had wandered about till she was beyond her own
in interest, has devotees who exalt above all the others its exquisite
her without looking on her as of a distinct species, a being heaven-sent,
family. “Pray do, my dear Miss Lucas,” she added, in a melancholy tone;
aloud, “if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness--if she
[Illustration]
without it.
employed in digging and pulling up roots. After he had been employed
her, with much earnest gravity, that it was not of the least importance;
Heading to Chapter I.                                                  1
be dissuaded from it. I have not been used to submit to any person’s
cordiality with which he expressed himself on seeing her again. He
“You must not be too severe upon yourself,” replied Elizabeth.
you _would_ have spoken if I had not asked you! My resolution of
urged my desire with an earnestness that easily induced my father to
he would be married in his blue coat.
“My dear Jane,” exclaimed Elizabeth, “you are too good. Your sweetness
countenance expressed all those bad qualities which often characterise
drew her notice. It was at Sir William Lucas’s, where a large party were
taught me high thoughts; he elevated me above the wretched sphere of my
at last, that she drew his notice because there was something about her
pause before the peace of the grave have succeeded to your sad torments!
next to her. “I can hardly breathe.”
“Pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs,
me, would _my_ refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on
“Miss Eliza Bennet,” said Miss Bingley, “despises cards. She is a great
have a right to such very strong local attachment. _You_ cannot have
weeks; and to Mrs. Gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction. The
friendly, and obliging, his presentation at St. James’s had made him
must endure.
disapprobation.
headache, there is not much the matter with me.
seas I have found such a one, but I fear I have gained him only to know his
her, she could not tell, but he certainly had not seen her with
Edmund only took Fanny because Mary shocked him, and that Fanny might
decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in her arms, leaving
with you.”
by the appearance of the hut; here the snow and rain could not
As they walked home, Elizabeth related to Jane what she had seen pass
most respectable, agreeable corps; and my friend Denny tempted me
without enabling them to enter into something more of conversation,
friends around you, who centre all their hopes in you. Have we lost
passion—remembering what she had suffered, and how she had been
proposals which she had proudly spurned only four months ago would now
“For some weeks I led a miserable life in the woods, endeavouring to
‘What for?’”
Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
only one of these advantages, but without either he was considered,
by these means was enabled, with infinite fatigue, to move my ice raft in
Kitty, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to cry.
compose a female without again devoting several months to profound
comprehend what I must feel, and I rely upon his goodness.”
kind of rough usage, ill befitting the wounds that my mind had
known nor felt beyond the sensations of hunger, thirst, and heat!
]
when she came into the room this morning. Her dirty petticoat quite
unhappy, there may be error and there may be misery. Thoughtlessness,
CHAPTER IX.
moment alighted from his horse or his carriage. She blushed again and
Archangel, 28th March, 17—.
friends--has eloped; has thrown herself into the power of--of Mr.
suit.
creator, who would believe, unless his senses convinced him, in the
Chapter 12
After this day, Jane said no more of her indifference. Not a word passed
My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion. He
that she had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish
all her heart; but the delicacy of it prevented further inquiry.
brain; but she was satisfied with none. Those that best pleased her, as
satisfactory; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made
was sense and good-humour in her face, and her manners were perfectly
the morning, found herself, in a shorter space of time than she could
the world again through his credit and assistance.
“To assure you in the most animated language”                        132
dancing, and the modern languages, to deserve the word; and, besides all
[Illustration]
therefore, I shall be uniformly silent: and you may assure yourself that
are two things that I want very much to know:--one is, how much money
herself; but that after their removal, it had been everywhere discussed;
foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine every day.”
this, she must possess a certain something in her air and manner of
visitor did at last appear; but the shortness of her stay, and, yet
neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we
last winter, that I had known it, and purposely kept it from him. He was
who came to tell the same news; and no sooner had they entered the
The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
the last; and the evening, though as it passed it seemed long, was not
much handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and he was looked at with great
course of the morning. I will only add, God bless you.
stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it.”
inclination to see the place again. Mr. Gardiner declared his
her.
familiar to me in my happier time and which I had contemplated but the day
like the three gardeners, but she could not remember ever having heard
forget the past in my union with her.
go. She represented to him all the improprieties of Lydia’s general
power to dance with others. In vain did she entreat him to stand up with
Allowing for the common demands of the game, Mr. Wickham was therefore
“Will you come and see me?”
veil. Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only replied by
that you should come together. Oh, he is the handsomest young man that
“Yet I cannot ask you to renounce your country and friends to fulfil
kind of rule, “and vinegar that makes them sour—and camomile that makes
thought him as beautiful as the stranger. She appeared affected by
to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as
other, told the girls what an honour they might expect, adding,--
since you went away. Miss Lucas is married and settled: and one of my
crimes and torn by the bitterest remorse, where can I find rest but in
requisite; or by ascertaining the secret of the magnet, which, if at
stupider person.”
[Illustration:
Elizabeth could bear it no longer. She got up and ran out of the room;
have been more wretchedly blind. But vanity, not love, has been my
mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought; and, to
manner as in the collections at Servox and Chamounix. The latter name
“In marrying your nephew, I should not consider myself as quitting that
departure, she observed,--
concealing; and between herself and Elizabeth, therefore, the subject
down on one knee. “I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” he began.
the others with tolerable composure. Everything was too recent for
But when the gentlemen entered, Jane was no longer the first object;
Mr. Wickham; no, I certainly am not. But he is, beyond all comparison,
renewed the day before, and a positive engagement made of his meeting
wish of doing him justice. He expressed no regret for what he had done
“Why not?” said the March Hare.
I remembered also the necessity imposed upon me of either journeying to
aunt’s, where his regret and vexation and the concern of everybody were
alone, was such as I have given above. It was owing to him, to his
“I had not thought Mr. Darcy so bad as this--though I have never liked
attentions to Miss King were now the consequence of views solely and
February. We accordingly determined to commence our journey towards the
friends, my wife, and my beloved country; again I saw the benevolent
trust him not. His soul is as hellish as his form, full of treachery
Wickham, and give him an invitation also, if the family from Longbourn
having done thus much. There is but one part of my conduct, in the whole
you--and so I warn you. I have done with you from this very day. I told
satisfy Mr. Collins, and he was very soon obliged to take her Ladyship’s
were over, she returned to Charlotte Lucas, and was in conversation with
The lady was dressed in a dark suit and covered with a thick black
wasting in impotent passions. For while I destroyed his hopes, I did
The latter part of his tale had kindled anew in me the anger that had
officiousness of the mother, and heard all her silly remarks with a
often wandered wide from my path. The agony of my feelings allowed me
Yours ever,
walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of his own party.
it. That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable
was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnight’s time. As that was the
“This day was passed in the same routine as that which preceded it.
unwillingly said so. Miss Bingley offered her the carriage, and she only
Mrs. Bennet, Elizabeth, and one of the younger girls together, soon
final ladies’ battle with Lady Catherine, she is unexceptionable. Then
likes very much. The officers may not be so pleasant in General----’s
was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some
“that pang is past. God raises my weakness and gives me courage to
the print of his huge step on the white plain. To you first entering
said Alice to herself, “in my going out altogether, like a candle. I
importance.
present occasion; and, secondly, of my room. I shall be glad to have the
Elizabeth could not see Lady Catherine without recollecting that, had
would be gone with such celerity. Your conduct would be quite as
different from what they were then, that every unpleasant circumstance
snarling invective, but to gentle and oblique satire. If cynicism means
leaning upon the jutting rocks of the mountain or transversely upon
remarked, he meant to make inquiries at Clapham. If he could anyhow
feel herself called to touch. It is at least remarkable that in two very
“She is tolerable”
You, my playfellow, my companion, my sister, perish on the scaffold!
parting between the friends, Elizabeth was attended to the carriage by
the charge of her; but I was over-ruled, as I always am. Poor, dear
him. It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, we
a ball--and at this ball, what do you think he did? He danced only four
country. Now I am twenty-eight and am in reality more illiterate than many
musical but unlike that of either of my friends. On hearing this word,
ignorant of the truth myself. And when I returned home the ----shire
much engrossed by his own thoughts to perceive that Sir William Lucas
But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner’s curiosity; it was
object of her choice, by explaining the gradual change which her
painful labour, to arrive at once at the summit of my desires was the
denial; We must have a trial: For really this morning I’ve
and waited.
afraid of my running into any excess, of my encroaching on your
trial took place, the result of which deprived them of their fortune
My present situation was one in which all voluntary thought was
apologize for it, as well as to assure you of my readiness to make
deserted her; she still expected that it would all end well, and that
world that the sun was of little benefit to me. I might be driven into the
seeing that she was really unwell, did not press her to go, and as much
They had often attempted it before: but it was a subject on which Mrs.
been entirely deceived in Miss Bingley’s regard for me. But, my
journey to Ingolstadt, which was long and fatiguing. At length the
In this manner I distributed my occupations when I first arrived, but
so little worthy of the affection that united them. He lost no time in
No sympathy may I ever find. When I first sought it, it was the love of
justified by his relationship to the young ladies who introduced him to
This answer startled me, but I presently recovered myself. I was innocent;
reasonable as not to mention an officer above once a day, unless, by
thought: still it had _very_ long claws and a great many teeth, so she
were exceedingly bad. He had found the law a most unprofitable study,
convenience of the world. I cannot forget the follies and vices of
society she was of course carefully kept; and though Mrs. Wickham
civil to him only as Mr. Bingley’s friend, without being heard by either
Though they were mine before.
delight to the happy though modest hopes which Jane entertained of
they had, all my past life was now a blot, a blind vacancy in which I
precluding the possibility of the other, was soon to be formed in their
kindly!) to put me on my guard. Can there be any other opinion on the
his falling in love at all is not extremely probable. Here again I
answered this description, when Mr. Hurst called them to order, with
of the region towards which we are advancing, appear to dismay them. We
frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool—she
of the only face whose features would be known to her. At last it
various laborious occupations within. The old man, whom I soon
gave Lydia the feelings which would have attended herself, had _she_
painful than Elizabeth’s: but whatever she felt she was desirous of
dismissed from her charge on some cause of disapprobation, though
In spite of her deeply-rooted dislike, she could not be insensible to
imagine that you are gratifying mine?”
many leagues from Paris. Felix had procured passports in the name of
Your affectionate brother,
“And now, with the world before me, whither should I bend my steps? I
forgotten the particulars of what had happened and only felt as if some
had been written a day later than the conclusion of the first.
one of the windows.
fancy and passion. At other times he repeated my favourite poems, or drew
CHAPTER VIII.
once or twice I heard them, on these occasions, utter the words _good
“For heaven’s sake, madam, speak lower. What advantage can it be to you
and put it to her lips. “I know _something_ interesting is sure to
clothes must reflect on her daughter’s nuptials, than to any sense of
But that cannot be; the human senses are insurmountable barriers to our
“He made a little mistake, to be sure; but it is to the credit of his
their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantel-piece, the
out “The Queen! The Queen!” and the three gardeners instantly threw
opening her eyes to his character never occurred to me. That _she_ could
“It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it began;
“I do not mind his not talking to Mrs. Long,” said Miss Lucas, “but I
“No more have I,” said Mr. Bennet; “and I am glad to find that you do
Still, as I urged our leaving Ireland with such inquietude and impatience,
“Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia, we may draw from it this useful
“Is your sister at Pemberley still?”
Chapter 20
in, observed,--
the change and filled him with cheerfulness and admiration. But I was
often endeavoured to encourage his children, as sometimes I found that
moment’s deliberation,--
seemed to give to what was going forward in his family, that _he_ would
remained to be done but to go; and Elizabeth, after all the misery of
I had begun my adjuration with solemnity and an awe which almost assured me
laid the foundation. It is too long ago. I was in the middle before I
that it was impossible for that friend to be tolerably happy in the lot
they were nowhere to be seen—everything seemed to have changed since
And the executioner went off like an arrow.
_that_ is—‘Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of
afraid you will be angry.”
superior accomplishments of my friends. The old man, I could perceive,
“Man,” I cried, “how ignorant art thou in thy pride of
leaped from his station, and running with the swiftness of lightning,
“Yes, she did.”
in the church, were it possible that he could ever be in a situation to
embers when they were nearly extinguished. When night came again I
combined with the narrowness of her field;” and he has justly added that
Darcy shook his head in silent acquiescence.
world; though only a few weeks before, when Lydia had first run away,
intelligence soon in your own handwriting.
monotonous yet ever-changing scene. I thought of Switzerland; it was
“He is also handsome,” replied Elizabeth, “which a young man ought
all brightened up again.)
tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself again. She longed to
all her views were overthrown, by seeing him fall a victim to her
as Oxford, for the antiquity of the latter city was more pleasing to him.
labour—but besides this there is a love for the marvellous, a belief
intentions were affectionate, although his manners were rude, deserved
[Illustration:
She explained what its effects on her had been, and how gradually all
have so disinterested an affection for you, may increase your miseries
fortune could have befallen me, but when I became assured that my enemy
of mountain above mountain by which it was overhung.
time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely disappeared; so
information, that Bingley’s attentions to your sister had given rise to
was this his first crime? Alas! I had turned loose into the world a
and warmth remained for Bingley’s salutation. He was full of joy and
Chapter 14
destroy the creature on whose future existence he depended for
can do, and I demand it of you as a right which you must not refuse to
“I wonder,” said he, at the next opportunity of speaking, “whether he is
She had a sister married to a Mr. Philips, who had been a clerk to their
“Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn’t believe it—”
two miles below. He walked on first, carrying a part of the fishing tackle,
neighbourhood, the society, appearing highly pleased with all that he
didst seek my extinction, that I might not cause greater wretchedness;
its containing any repetition of those sentiments, or renewal of those
he was, that letters from the friends he had formed in London desired
quietly in the hall till she and Kitty were out of sight, then returned
income.
“You have insulted me, in every possible method. I must beg to return to
follow me to Mr. Kirwin’s to give an account of yourself.”
“I said pig,” replied Alice; “and I wish you wouldn’t keep appearing
very little of his time there in future. He has many friends, and he is
dreary glaciers are my refuge. I have wandered here many days; the
the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made
civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at Longbourn; and
you.”
Elizabeth replied that it was.
The prospect of the Netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to every
it.
Mr. Collins was punctual to his time, and was received with great
requiring constant attendance; and though almost persuaded that nothing
paws and washing her face—and she is such a nice soft thing to
Henry soothed me, and I could thus cheat myself into a transitory
[Illustration: “Accompanied by their aunt”
conceive the hundredth part of the anguish I was destined to endure.
library to myself as soon as may be.”
on, he returned again to his friends, who were still staying at
unable to reply. I spoke; I told them to retire and consider of what had
must have suffered! I expect to see you looking even more ill than
as Lady Catherine. A hundred years ago, an earl’s daughter, the Lady
Yours,” etc.
with which her praises were received, formed a curious dialogue, and was
had often great enjoyment out of doors. Her favourite walk, and where
shut. “I do not know how you will ever make him amends for his kindness;
CHAPTER XLIV.
hoped to make. None but those who have experienced them can conceive
before he quitted the inn, and that his gravity and thoughtfulness there
This was spoken jestingly, but it appeared to her so just a picture of
Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
“To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of
say that ‘I see what I eat’ is the same thing as ‘I eat what I see’!”
cautiously: “But I don’t understand. Where did they draw the treacle
dressed up Chamberlayne in woman’s clothes, on purpose to pass for a
prepare a frame for the reception of it, with all its intricacies of
these transports, by leading her thoughts to the obligations which Mr.
croquet-ground.
special licence--you must and shall be married by a special licence.
About this time we retired to our house at Belrive. This change was
eldest and herself especially, there subsisted a very particular regard.
motionless and speechless, wishing for some mighty revolution that
gloomy. Elizabeth soon observed, and instantly understood it. Her power
visions of the beauty and the majesty of goodness. But it is even so; the
of course, could push this taste further than a lady in the early
crowd as they followed and surrounded me, when an ill-looking man
intermixed with obscure forebodings of evil that made my heart sicken
continued, though with little satisfaction, till the door was thrown
operation of the fire. The wet wood which I had placed near the heat
the court.
its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; “and they drew all manner of
lawn. It was too early in the morning for visitors; and besides, the
in this interference. From what she had said of her resolution to
aspect expressive of the greatest benevolence; a few grey hairs covered his
youthful lovers have been one day in the bloom of health and hope, and the
cheeks of the two who caused their confusion suffered no variation of
so stingy about it, you know—”
never seen the view.”
“I have been most highly gratified, indeed, my dear sir; such very
out of that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright
suspected that every power of pleasing would fail her.
occasions it is the etiquette; but no one was less likely than Mrs.
acted and told by puppets with pebbles in their mouths. And despite the
docile to my natural lord and king if thou wilt also perform thy part,
“A note for Miss Bennet”                                              36
removing all my doubts. I am not indebted for my present happiness to
_Darcy has always seemed to me by far the best and most interesting of
in which he immediately asked her why she supposed Miss Darcy likely to
CHAPTER XXVI.
Elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand. Jane now came up.
uncle at home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk
day, “your sister is crossed in love, I find. I congratulate her. Next
creature’s formation, but on this point he was impenetrable.
of prime ministers and archbishops, of “metals, semi-metals, and
Armada, Gravesend, Woolwich, and Greenwich—places which I had heard
“My dear Mr. Bennet,” said his lady to him one day, “have you heard that
consummate the series of my being and accomplish that which must be done,
better. Mr. Collins was eloquent in her praise. The subject elevated him
moon or the night was star-light, I went into the woods and collected
resisting every repetition of it. His resentment was in proportion to
friend says into a compliment on the sweetness of my temper. But I am
respected by his superiors and beloved by his equals. His son was bred
Forster, and Kitty and me, except my aunt, for we were forced to borrow
to take his guest into the drawing-room again, and when tea was over,
whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed between the
herself, she endeavoured to forget what she could not overlook, and to
the awful boundary between life and death, felt not, as I did, such
And accordingly she did turn, and they walked towards the Parsonage
“She is my youngest girl but one. My youngest of all is lately married,
should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down
Safie was always gay and happy; she and I improved rapidly in the
creatures.’
and told him that I had an accusation to make, that I knew the
with despair that their little fund was rapidly decreasing and that
“It would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression; but their
of my undertaking.
and then cast me abroad an object for the scorn and horror of mankind.
that would be a cruel kindness, and I dare not do it. What would be
only headstrong in such matters as these. In everything else she is as
do a thing I ask! It’s always six o’clock now.”
This is the most favourable period for travelling in Russia. They fly
you. I feel as if I had never done you justice, or loved you as you
heart and depressed spirits. But I consented to listen, and seating
]
“But I would really advise you to make your purchase in that
remained during the space of several revolutions of the moon in my hovel, I
For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and wondering what
possesses over all the others. The plot, though not elaborate, is almost
aggravate this resentment in the healthiest way in the world._
Darcy, whose pride, she was convinced, would receive a deeper wound from
sincere; did you admire me for my impertinence?”
picturesque as that of Servox, through which I had just passed. The
and her preference secured, at any time, by their renewal.
CHAPTER XVII.
eyes sparkled, as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and at that moment I
of _that_ when they fall in love.”
She retreated from the window, fearful of being seen; and as she walked
“It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean he _should_.”
necessity of becoming acquainted with more languages than that of my native
congratulations, and laughing and talking with more violence than ever;
“Oh no--it is not for _me_ to be driven away by Mr. Darcy. If _he_
its contents. But such as they were, it may be well supposed how eagerly
the north, just when she had expected most pleasure and pride in her
of marriage within three days was nothing in comparison of his being now
“_My_ overhearings were more to the purpose than _yours_, Eliza,” said
Elizabeth could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing his
might wish to talk again of either. But there was still something
“Perhaps I do. Arguments are too much like disputes. If you and Miss
as their pest, whose selfishness had not hesitated to buy its own peace at
been made by a young soldier, burning for glory and slaughter, I should
does not care about you.”
Elizabeth was shocked to think that, however incapable of such
sun rose higher, I lay down on the grass and was overpowered by a deep
night I passed! The cold stars shone in mockery, and the bare trees
She shook her head. “I do not get on at all. I hear such different
He then related that, the morning on which the murder of poor William
Mrs. Philips’s vulgarity was another, and, perhaps, a greater tax on his
“Alphonse Frankenstein.
correspondence was as regular and frequent as it ever had been: that it
objections I have already urged I have still another to add. I am no
wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and
CHAPTER X.
anything else.
destruction of the dæmon more as a task enjoined by heaven, as the
abhorred! They were my brethren, my fellow beings, and I felt
myself, and of Mr. Wickham too. He shall not be in love with me, if I
Besides, I had a contempt for the uses of modern natural philosophy.
dæmon, to whom I had given life. What did he there? Could he be (I
advised her to return to bed, and promised her some draughts. The advice
of the world was now within my grasp. Not that, like a magic scene, it
mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the
but unluckily no one passed the windows now except a few of the
year! Letters of business, too! How odious I should think them!”
gallantry; and while she steadily repressed it, could not but feel the
event takes place--which, however, as I have already said, may not be
cannot wonder at his complaisance; for who would object to such a
of her acquaintance with Mr. Wickham; and nothing less than a dance on
moved. Mr. Jones says we must not think of moving her. We must trespass
Lobster Quadrille is!”
him, if you do not.”
these sounds and was able to pronounce them. I distinguished several other
Arabian was left alone, unacquainted with the language of the country
first sees my aunt!”
“My cousin,” replied I, “it is decided as you may have expected; all
Lydia, whose own misery was extreme, and who could not comprehend such
in the parlour, he welcomed them a second time, with ostentatious
persevere in this exile? You will return and again seek their kindness, and
good enough for him.”
was possible, except to Elizabeth; and from all Bingley’s connections
The peasant woman, perceiving that my mother fixed eyes of wonder and
their corps. This was exactly as it should be; for the young man wanted
“As the sun became warmer and the light of day longer, the snow
prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in Great Britain to
“he never failed to inform them”
with Rosings. A lively imagination soon settled it all.
“The ancient teachers of this science,” said he,
she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said “What else had you to learn?”
The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said “Consider, my
Jenkinson’s room. She would be in nobody’s way, you know, in that part
“Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me. No one who has ever seen you
you meant to quit the place entirely at Michaelmas; but, however, I hope
few human beings besides them, and if any other happened to enter the
his return to complete the negotiation they had entered into for his
dinner.
last obliged to accept the second-hand intelligence of their neighbour,
them by any participation of sentiment. If _you_ have not been mistaken
part of each was when the post was expected. The arrival of letters was
have confessed myself guilty of the crime ascribed to Justine, but I
kept from it by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to marry
of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and I
let him enter!”
recovered his spirits, and is reported to be on the point of marrying a
“It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my Lady, I dare say; but, I
others! But why should you wish to persuade me that I feel more than I
in Darcy’s breast there was a tolerably powerful feeling towards her,
puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the subject.
was short but remarkably erect and his voice the sweetest I had ever heard.
the effect of a common and transient liking, which ceased when he saw
“Oh, yes!--that, that is the worst of all. Till I was in Kent, and saw
becomes herself and daughter. I would advise you merely to put on
became a traitor to good feeling and honour and had quitted Italy with
In a few minutes she was joined by Bingley, whose conference with her
your uncle has laid down to bring it about; and the other, how I am ever
shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can’t see you?”
touched his hat--a salutation which Mr. Darcy just deigned to return.
regiment.”
remains with us.”
“scratches,” and she never attacks first. Some of the merest
was now again determined upon. I obtained from my father a respite of
brink of the river for the better inspection of some curious
to them. The party did not supply much conversation. Elizabeth was ready
speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
me the rest I so much desire; or must I die, and he yet live? If I do,
resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed;--a resolution the more
_some_ change in my size; and as it can’t possibly make me larger, it
she, “when he knows who they are! He takes them now for people of
such as, that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long;
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.
eye. This expedition has been the favourite dream of my early years. I
cannot afford it. And what claims has Lydia, what attractions has she
weeks. Mrs. Bennet was quite in the fidgets. She looked at Jane, and
countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. His sisters were fine women,
violence of my affection. To fortune I am perfectly indifferent, and
[later editions continued as follows
lectures and cultivated the acquaintance of the men of science of the
were agitated, and my eyes inflamed by watching and misery. The sleep
hall; and Elizabeth, as they waited for the housekeeper, had leisure to
“Good Lord! Sir William, how can you tell such a story? Do not you know
To Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting personage
Your alliance will be a disgrace; your name will never even be mentioned
them from an evil which it only remains for you to make so great, that
was not so miserable as I am now.”
by Beaufort’s coffin weeping bitterly, when my father entered the
be known. All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew
mildness of my nature had fled, and all within me was turned to gall
after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were
very few of us who have heart enough to be really in love without
had hurt the poor animal’s feelings. “I quite forgot you didn’t like
come to Hunsford.”
sisters, “I should not care how proud I was. I would keep a pack of
“I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen
what has happened?”
“Yet such must be the impression conveyed to you by what appears to
some of the Lucases, and two or three officers, joined eagerly in
such a striking civility as Miss Darcy’s, in coming to them on the very
civil! for she only came, I suppose, to tell us the Collinses were well.
came from it. The coach, therefore, took them the first stage of their
dismay. I was bound by a solemn promise which I had not yet fulfilled
“You might just as well say,” added the March Hare, “that ‘I like what
ladies were ready enough to talk, and Mr. Collins seemed neither in need
the house.”
the time that I dated my creation, and which would give an air of
was doubtless the temptation which urged the murderer to the deed. We
some little alteration in it, and observed, with a laugh, that it was a
its impropriety of expression.
magistrate, whose mind was occupied by far other ideas than those of
married, you know, at St. Clement’s, because Wickham’s lodgings were in
expected for her sister, in looking back to what they had feared, only
[Illustration]
daughter’s favour, without having paid yourself and Mr. Bennet the
the deadly languor and coldness of the limbs told me that what I now held
pleasure. Miss Bennet he acknowledged to be pretty; but she smiled too
“My dear Mr. Bennet, you must not expect such girls to have the sense of
united with Jane in an endeavour to check the imprudence of Catherine
accompanied by me, visited this abode. She found a peasant and his wife,
formality, to his humble abode, and punctually repeated all his wife’s
with an expression of civil disdain, thus accosted her,--
“Is this,” thought Elizabeth, “meant for me?” and she coloured at the
I had begun life with benevolent intentions and thirsted for the moment
education, and who has lived in the world, is ill-qualified to recommend
begins ‘_I passed by his garden_.’”
related as made by himself to Lady Catherine, “May I ask whether these
“Oh, yes! of that kind of love which I suppose him to have felt. Poor
feelings were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which he
extraordinary in them. They have a sharp, shrewish look, which I do not
condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to conceal from him
woman may take liberties with her husband, which a brother will not
Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.
“Then you keep moving round, I suppose?” said Alice.
possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your
ineffectual light.
said to herself; “I should think it would be _quite_ as much use in the
although I abhorred society, wished to view again mountains and streams and
and down the room in earnest meditation; his brow contracted, his air
_hers_ she thought was still worse. Not a syllable was uttered by
time I sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice. A mist covered
see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair
and watchful, while my right hand grasped a pistol which was hidden in
GEORGE ALLEN
history of all the voyages made for purposes of discovery composed the
so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into
]
likely to be in this country much longer.”
the bottom. What a divine day! How happy and serene all nature
_Alice’s Right Foot, Esq., Hearthrug, near the Fender,_ (_with
good-will are highly commendable, and that the circumstance of my
comfort to think how fond the two sisters were of Jane, and to be
Street the evening before I came home. But Mr. Gardiner could not
the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented a comparison
lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, she again heard a
listen to the waves as they roared and dashed at my feet. It was a
disgust to his business and to his residence in a small market town;
“You have travelled; you have spent several years of your life at
would, all things considered, be divided between_ Emma _and the present
“About a month,” said Elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the subject
unhappy, he is not so utterly occupied by his own misery but that he
before misfortune had tainted my mind and changed its bright visions of
You do not blame me, however, for refusing him?”
dared not lift up her eyes. How Mr. Darcy looked, therefore, she could
so speedy a return, immediately said,--
“I am not mad,” I cried energetically; “the sun and the heavens, who
acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever Mr. Darcy had been, was much
Heading to Chapter XVI.                                               95
looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances.
eyes.”
to my thoughts my father, Elizabeth, and all those scenes of home so dear
“My dearest child,” she cried, “I can think of nothing else. Ten
fan and gloves.
to try to discover her. What he means to do, I am sure I know not; but
not express so much satisfaction as her children expected, considering
What could be the meaning of it? It was impossible to imagine; it was
“Serpent, I say again!” repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued
Darcy called, and was shut up with him several hours. It was all
its miseries for ever. At length I wandered towards these mountains,
intercourse with those I loved. I knew that a thousand fearful
While I still hung over her in the agony of despair, I happened to look up.
to drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies.”
Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary way of
ensigncy in General----’s regiment, now quartered in the north. It is
“Talking of axes,” said the Duchess, “chop off her head!”
Although I possessed the capacity of bestowing animation, yet to
Letter 1
sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so
wished to learn never wanted the means. We were always encouraged to
Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak—
and could not help saying so.
but when he observed me more attentively, he saw a wildness in my eyes
can give his sister any pleasure, is sure to be done in a moment. There
every attempt I made for this purpose. Their pronunciation was quick, and
accomplishments which she could not otherwise have failed of, as I am
making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
“I paused. This, I thought, was the moment of decision, which was to
cooks at least. And, my dear Jane, I never saw you look in greater
I beat him when he sneezes;
learn to be contented, and we shall be on good terms again: though we
which reflection would be long indulged, and must be unavailing. She
since we see, every day, that where there is affection young people are
day will be hateful to you. You are my creator, but I am your master;
so in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves
Bingley if she could. But, Lizzy! Oh, sister! it is very hard to think
herself away. “I wish,” cried she, “that I were to die with you; I
traversed a vast portion of the earth and have endured all the hardships
/* “My dear Sir, */
graves. Everything was silent except the leaves of the trees, which
“His parting obeisance”                                              261
a child whom she had nursed from its birth, and appeared to love as if
“You are uniformly charming!” cried he, with an air of awkward
the utmost to speak with composure when she said,--
By thought supplied, or any interest
gigantic stature, and the deformity of its aspect more hideous than belongs
was agreed that, immediately after our union, we should proceed to Villa
with Jane again, and enabled to contribute to the recovery of her
suffer! Live, and be happy, and make others so.”
I was parched by thirst, a slight cloud would bedim the sky, shed the
“If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have no idea
politeness by the whole family. Mr. Bennet indeed said little; but the
have been a daily witness of; and altogether I trust it does not appear
“I beg your pardon,” said Alice very humbly: “you had got to the fifth
Between two and three in the morning the moon rose; and I then, putting my
“Fury said to a mouse, That he met in the house, ‘Let us both
conjured up a thousand images to torment and sting me. Why had I not
Jane, as she finished it. “Is it not clear enough? Does it not expressly
kept her place at the table; but Elizabeth, to satisfy her mother, went
had confessed, he did not credit it.”
summer: the windows are full west.”
The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at
will probably be of some duration.”
“Call the next witness!” said the King.
and rob it of a few petrified spars, without his perceiving me.”
assistance from her desire of getting rid of Elizabeth.
thrill all connected with me with horror. I was aware also that I
The communication excited many professions of concern; and enough was
entered, and their leader addressed me. He told me that he and his
breast. I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovely woman. In spite
countenance, a good figure, and very pleasing address. The introduction
Charlotte’s situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch. But,
But on her returning to the drawing-room, when her letter was finished,
my pleasures.
her neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She
satisfaction, and prepare for such a visitor, when Bingley’s quick step
letter remained on her mind, she was all surprise, all astonishment,
[Illustration:
“It taught me to hope,” said he, “as I had scarcely ever allowed myself
[Illustration:
Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and
who owe me nothing? They spurn and hate me. The desert mountains and
him ill, it is perfectly false: for, on the contrary, he has been always
learnt to detect, in the very gentleness which had first delighted her,
It was dawn, and she quitted her asylum, that she might again endeavour
Don’t let him know she liked them best,
reasonableness. She has known him only a fortnight. She danced four
gladness akin to rapture, as they were unfolded to me, are among the
to its children, “Come away, my dears! It’s high time you were all in
of my fellow-creatures, if I am tempted, or how am I even to know that
wonder that I survive what I have endured. I will confide this tale of
concede.”
This sound disturbed an old woman who was sleeping in a chair beside
a point should admit of doubt. But, really, I know not what to say.
falling through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) “And what
looking up into hers—she could hear the very tones of her voice, and
principally offended Mr. Darcy; but he will vouch for the good conduct,
“Mr. Darcy!” repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.
“Why?” said the Caterpillar.
At length, however, Mrs. Bennet had no more to say; and Lady Lucas, who
“A man who has once been refused! How could I ever be foolish enough to
or, the Modern Prometheus
him; we must forget it ourselves. They were off Saturday night about
Attention, forbearance, patience with Darcy, was injury to Wickham. She
little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them. Calling back
weeks at Rosings, and asked him if he were acquainted with the former.
“Collar that Dormouse,” the Queen shrieked out. “Behead that Dormouse!
This naturally introduced a panegyric from Jane on his diffidence, and
being informed that she was very accomplished.”
at Mr. Darcy, “There is a very fine old saying, which everybody here is
of the person who wrote and the person who received it are now so widely
book! When I have a house of my own, I shall be miserable if I have not
your sister’s being in town. I knew it myself, as it was known to Miss
best and safest way, and Colonel Forster is obliged to be at Brighton
drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by Mrs. Bennet’s being quite
Dear William! dearest blessed child! I soon shall see you again in
“The old man, leaning on his son, walked each day at noon, when it did
the likeness of Mr. Wickham, suspended, amongst several other
“How do you like the Queen?” said the Cat in a low voice.
boats; nets were cast, but in vain. After passing several hours, we
“And that’s the jury-box,” thought Alice, “and those twelve creatures,”
the days till she might reasonably hope to hear again. The promised
us all, which must arise from the public notice of Lydia’s unguarded and
for her to know in what manner she acceded to it. She immediately felt
arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them—all sorts of little
“Her daughter, Miss de Bourgh, will have a very large fortune, and it is
to Elizabeth.
boyhood. Six years had passed since then: _I_ was a wreck, but nought
you that if Darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison with
mutually silent on the subject; and Elizabeth felt persuaded that no
anything, and persevered, therefore, in requiring an explanation of his
resolved--nor did she much expect it would be asked; and fearful, on the
women better worth their notice. Let us hope, therefore, that her being
vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled, a
In Meryton they parted: the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one
about a twelvemonth ago, was now brought forward again.
pursued. Soon after, when he was alone with me, he said, “I have,
brother is the cause of it. I need not explain myself farther; and
very faint indeed. Even now I do not think that it would be impossible
By the quantity of provision which I had consumed, I should guess that
sister’s, “what you have learnt about Mr. Wickham. But perhaps you have
partiality is not misleading me, I think, when I call Charles most
character perfectly well. Here, consequently, was an inexhaustible
“Yes, but _I_ grow at a reasonable pace,” said the Dormouse: “not in
and have ranged through their immense recesses, consumed by a burning
however, with great spirit among her friends; for she had a lively,
well assured of his cousin’s corroboration.
knowledge.”
Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door
happiness of a most beloved sister?”
“It’s the first position in dancing.” Alice said; but was dreadfully
“When I do myself the honour of speaking to you next on the subject, I
I trembled excessively; I could not endure to think of, and far less to
others so soon as I ought, nor their offences against myself. My
change has taken place in our little household. Do you remember on
Mr. Bingley followed his advice. Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elizabeth
good-humour and common politeness of Bingley, in half an hour’s visit,
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
that, when called into action, she would have sacrificed every better
hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and, however bare of
approached this tremendous being; I dared not again raise my eyes to his
possibly hear you.” And certainly there _was_ a most extraordinary
and the avowal of all that he felt and had long felt for her immediately
a year without Greek, I eat heartily without Greek.’ But his
law, hoping to free De Lacey and Agatha by this proceeding.
and make _their_ eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale,
“I quite agree with you,” said the Duchess; “and the moral of that
that Mrs. Bennet had not found Miss Bennet worse than she expected.
or friend upon earth. These amiable people to whom I go have never
door was off its hinges. I ordered it to be repaired, bought some
dreadful. At length, in a voice of forced calmness, he said,--
did. He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant; and since this sad
I rushed out of the court in agony. The tortures of the accused did
It now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood
relations of things. The busy stage of life, the virtues of heroes,
these the relative situations of the different countries of the earth.
they could be of use to us.”
such as you describe Mr. Bingley, so easily falls in love with a pretty
“if I had it written down: but I can’t quite follow it as you say it.”
“The next morning Felix went out to his work, and after the usual
“I am sure,” she added, “if it was not for such good friends, I do not
though this might be imaginary, she could not be deceived as to his
letter; “and, my dear aunt, if you do not tell me in an honourable
place, and accordingly began by observing, that his arrival had been
“That is very strange. But I suppose you had no opportunity. Your mother
good conduct, I am sure. You must not disappoint your father.”
“It is wrong from beginning to end,” said the Caterpillar decidedly,
been said that no one ever was like him. But in the first place,_ he
answered “Come on!” and ran the faster, while more and more faintly
pure and elevating passion, I should at present detest his very name,
Bennet was diffuse in her good wishes for the felicity of her daughter,
presents a singularly variegated landscape. In one spot you view
And she rose as she spoke. Lady Catherine rose also, and they turned
often. At least you should not _remind_ your mother of inviting him.”
made her look handsomer than ever. Kitty simpered and smiled, and hoped
quiet thing,” Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about
that he was surprised, but he never attempted to draw my secret from
gratitude--for to love, ardent love, it must be attributed; and, as
“Nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination,” said Elizabeth. “We
children, the only hopes of their doting parents; how many brides and
her younger girls, and Mary might have been prevailed on to accept him.
up shells beside the great and unexplored ocean of truth. Those of his
asserted his blamelessness in the affair;--that, proud and repulsive as
the amphitheatre of mountains which forms its eastern boundary. The
Her sister, however, assured her of her being perfectly well; and their
that she did not always know when she was silent.
“She is so fond of Mrs. Forster,” said she, “it will be quite shocking
catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their
torments me.”
from pride or attachment, had evidently great pleasure in talking of her
stately deer were all novelties to us.
gratified herself by this effect of her charms, it was not long before
someone in sport. She continued her course along the precipitous sides
least. They always continue to grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to
great cordiality; and then, till her sister came down, she had to listen
had first, however, provided for my sustenance for that day by a loaf
In this room they were received by Miss Darcy, who was sitting there
was not likely to be discovered by the world in general, since Jane
snowy mountains descend almost perpendicularly to the water, casting black
“Oh, you’re sure to do that,” said the Cat, “if you only walk long
happened that protracted my stay.
dead companion, gave them a plentiful portion of food, and after an
“I wish it may.”
consolatory to her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress. It
Bennet.
“I had admired the perfect forms of my cottagers—their grace, beauty,
What his feelings were whom I pursued I cannot know. Sometimes, indeed, he
home.
He seemed astonished too on finding her alone, and apologized for his
calmer, if it may be called calmness when the violence of rage sinks into
her with his best respects to all her family, not forgetting his thanks
knowledge. Oh, that I had for ever remained in my native wood, nor
Elizabeth gave Charlotte all the credit. When Mr. Collins could be
insurrection and turmoil; I felt that order would thence arise, but I
not have him; and if you do not make haste he will change his mind and
him seek it. He knows where we live. I will not spend _my_ hours in
suggested by the extreme agitation I had exhibited when the mode of the
croquet with the Queen,” and she hurried out of the room. The cook
asked you to undertake my unfinished work, and I renew this request now,
his brother; he said, that he had been playing with him, that William
tastes are like my own, to approve or amend my plans. How would such a
[Illustration:
some weeks. It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to leave the repose,
“And is Miss Darcy as handsome as her brother?” said Mr. Gardiner.
far as to exclude me from P. I shall never be quite happy till I
outstrip them. They lagged behind, while Elizabeth, Kitty, and Darcy
Chapter 15
all will be completed in a week. They will then join his regiment,
“And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of expecting! I
his vacant hours in a comfortless hotel. Many of my acquaintance are
in a transparent pool! At first I started back, unable to believe that
door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden
clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you would tell Sally to
his fortune by marriage, in some other country. Under such
regulated in so small a family as hers, and instructed her as to the
he, has my nephew, made you an offer of marriage?”
as an occurrence which no accident could possibly prevent.
and half the night spent in conversation.
with the idea; and you may imagine that I am happy on every occasion to
engagements that had been made for him. He had never before supposed
unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in
into my flesh, and I sank again, trembling and hopeless, into my
the opinions of the hero, whose extinction I wept, without precisely
a Hatter: and in _that_ direction,” waving the other paw, “lives a
“Get to your places!” shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and
PUBLISHER
The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill
anybody who can read between lines will not find the lovers’
and oblivion in the same country where he had formerly been
quality or other, real or imaginary. Vanity and pride are different
blow as this. She was humbled, she was grieved; she repented, though she
leave my solitary isle and to meet him at Perth, that we might proceed
late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided.
been always at Longbourn.”
towards them with a look of curiosity; and that her Ladyship, after a
Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, my father, and of the wretched Victor, and
feeling and continued,
where the family did not visit. It was acknowledged, however, that he
“Do you prefer reading to cards?” said he; “that is rather singular.”
believe it to be an intuitive discernment, a quick but never-failing
to carry him into the cabin, but as soon as he had quitted the fresh
present observation to be satisfied, from the reason of things, that
uncomfortable--I may say unhappy. And with no one to speak to of what I
the dinnertime. Mrs. Jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how
escaped my notice.”
a satisfied conscience, destroy your own creature. Oh, praise the
rising. But it refreshed me and filled me with such agreeable sensations
equal.”
nothing to distress you; and be assured that if a lively joy is not
alteration of his manner since they last parted, every sentence that he
Mr. Bennet treated the matter differently. “So, Lizzy,” said he, one
encouragement of vice; and had I been the rector of Longbourn, I should
letter, written by the prisoner to—to somebody.”
husband. He bore it, however, with admirable calmness. He could even
income go a good way. This is my advice. Find such a woman as soon as
But she waited patiently.
On the birth of a second son, my junior by seven years, my parents gave
room, or the number of couples.”
large estate in Derbyshire could save him from having a most forbidding,
They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and
wonder at such a want of penetration, or fear that, perhaps, instead of
This was a strange tale, but it did not shake my faith; and I replied
“Upon my word, Caroline, I should think it more possible to get
animation, and almost all its sense, by the absence of Jane and
Pray, what is the reason of that?”
Haunted him like a passion: the tall rock,
she might be amused in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingley’s designs on him
visitors, and of letting them see her civility towards himself and his
the moderation of his wishes, but his eagerness to grasp at anything.
write, went into the breakfast-room for that purpose soon after tea; for
unhappy. Do not distress me by the idea. I am not ashamed of having been
feelings of each of her visitors, she wanted to compose her own, and to
appears!”
all his endeavours he had found impossible to conquer; and with
Beautiful, beautiful Soup!
Collins first came to Hunsford.”
heart, that I can get no rest by night nor by day. And tell my dear
“How can you talk so?” said Jane, faintly smiling; “you must know, that,
did with the tarts, you know—”
Elizabeth also suffered extreme anguish. About five in the morning I
to a tale of spirits and supernatural events; but when he was called upon
feels it, it will easily account for her behaviour to me; and so
age two years when he was tempted, by an accidental recommendation, to
would he not accompany me to England? This imagination was dreadful in
saw Mr. Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her
_And, after all, what is the good of seeking for the reason of
added that of general unreserve. The whole of what Elizabeth had already
meantime I sat upon the beach, employed in cleaning and arranging my
my tea when I was sent for.”
fully convinced that I was in reality the monster that I am, I was
towards Geneva.
enough.”
Hunsford. Pray go to see them, with Sir William and Maria. I am
almighty than that which had created and ruled the elements, here
had been educated, what carriage her father kept, and what had been her
contrary, of being considered as intruding themselves needlessly long,
The End                                                              476
“I have already told her so once, by your desire.”
a large and luxurious city called Paris, surrounded by friends and
camp; and from her correspondence with her sister there was still less
spirits, by all that affection could do.
towards _him_, they are even impartial towards Miss King. I cannot find
We feel, conceive, or reason; laugh or weep,
that group of labourers coming from among their vines; and that village
minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his inquiries after all her
Darcy. It was a rational scheme, to be sure! but from what the report of
An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.”
but a day or two since we first came! and yet how many things have
jewel, to part with it again so soon?
“from that knowledge of what the manners of the great really are, which
my eyes still fixed on the western horizon, the edge of which the moon
complacency in her air and manner, not often united with great
While I watched the tempest, so beautiful yet terrific, I wandered on with
succeeded. But my enthusiasm was checked by my anxiety, and I appeared
be pleased with this explanation; and in a probability of this being the
the Lucases, and the officers, there was not a day without its
_missish_, I hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report. For
and want, Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little
very much to his credit, I am sure, that you should think so.”
soon as the dazzling light vanished, the oak had disappeared, and nothing
Yet, before I departed, there was a task to perform, on which I shuddered
attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and
dressing, preaching and talking away just as if she was reading a
had seen and talked with them both--Wickham repeatedly, Lydia once.
“I’d rather finish my tea,” said the Hatter, with an anxious look at
was. He threatened excommunication and hell fire in my last moments if
disapprobation, could not have made a stronger impression on his mind
CHAPTER III.   A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
There was nothing so _very_ remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it
appear to me as monsters thirsting for each other’s blood. Yet I am
how the eternal twinkling of the stars weighed upon me and how I
the arbiters of my future destiny. I formed in my imagination a
I, nor anybody, can ever forget. It is useless to talk of it.”
assured, dear Justine, that nothing can shake my confidence in you for a
shelter; at length I perceived a small hut, on a rising ground, which
the Queen, who was passing at the moment, “My dear! I wish you would
but on the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it
when I solicit for the honour of a private audience with her in the
introduction that I had brought with me, addressed to the most
faces of both, however, were tolerably calm; and no change was visible
By very slow degrees, and with frequent relapses that alarmed and
younger cottagers, for several times they placed food before the old
sentence first!”
talking to Bingley. She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making
reason for his resolving to follow us. There is a lady, it seems, a
yielded me supreme delight—so deeply was I engrossed in my
“Why, at that rate, you will have been here only six weeks. I expected
chance in the world of her ever getting him now. There is no talk of his
“She is a very good kind of girl, I believe. I know no harm of her.”
I cannot guess how many days have passed since then, but I have endured
“I cannot describe to you the agony that these reflections inflicted
Lydia was a stout, well-grown girl of fifteen, with a fine complexion
would not tell you how little I was satisfied with _her_ behaviour
before it’s done.”
introduced the discussion of _their_ affairs. Darcy was delighted with
hardly appeared capable. His appearance, different from any I had ever
“There can be no doubt of that. It is settled between us already that we
found hanging on the trees or lying on the ground. I slaked my thirst
nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of Mr.
everything’s curious today. I think I may as well go in at once.” And
to dress themselves for dining with the same family, when the sound of a
would be. I always said it must be so, at last. I was sure you could not
that noble place. Charles, when you build _your_ house, I wish it may be
hour by themselves; and Elizabeth instantly availed herself of the
no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, I’ve
The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from
told her that they were not to send any more draughts to Netherfield,
“Don’t grunt,” said Alice; “that’s not at all a proper way of
“It gives me the greatest pleasure to hear that you have passed your
I most eagerly sought; and if my incantations were always unsuccessful, I
to shed radiance from her looks and whose form and motions were lighter
manner of living, our small rooms, and few domestics, and the little we
set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath,
“You are mistaken. I write rather slowly.”
and her fear, if she once entered on the subject, of being hurried into
“Ten thousand pounds! Heaven forbid! How is half such a sum to be
“Justine, you may remember, was a great favourite of yours; and I
she remembered having seen in her brother’s Latin Grammar, “A mouse—of
despatched to Longbourn, to acquaint the family with her stay, and bring
it was not, in reality, so distant as we had supposed. Shut in, however, by
“My dear,” replied her husband, “I have two small favours to request.
disagreeable.”
cousin wept also.
forbearance; and though Mrs. Philips, as well as her sister, stood in
his pride had been pampered, is perfectly rational and sufficient; and
with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse.
of the match,” cried Elizabeth. “I should never have said Mrs. Collins
connection was evident: he sustained it, however, with fortitude: and,
bordered the park nearly opposite the front of his house. It was a
I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt. I had before
“Devil,” I exclaimed, “do you dare approach me? And do
imagination of it was conceived and long for the moment when these hands
his vanity by encouraging the preference which she believed she had most
“And washing?” said the Mock Turtle.
of fine sensations, and did I not as his maker owe him all the portion
educate him as my companion and friend, I should not be so desolate in
words at the first lesson; most of them, indeed, were those which I had
hut, ran across the fields with a speed of which his debilitated form
endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the particulars of his
repeating it. Elizabeth had never been more at a loss to make her
flourishing vineyards with green sloping banks and a meandering river
cannot go with the objectors. Darcy’s own account of the way in which
was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know. So
telling us that you were coming out.”
the usual brutality exercised on board ship: I have never believed it to be
pleasure.”
to a house, which he has legally hired, without raising all this
together. But enough of this. You alluded to something else. You
saw herself seated beneath a tent, tenderly flirting with at least six
am in earnest. I speak nothing but the truth. He still loves me, and we
It was nearly noon when I arrived at the top of the ascent. For some
“I am perfectly convinced by it that Mr. Darcy has no defect. He owns it
in my manner, and something, I doubt not, of that haughty fierceness
and endeavouring to identify every spot which might relate to the most
girl for the next ten years, I will take you to a review at the end of
their prosecution, happiness with their disregard.
made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow’s debts, and got him
They were within twenty yards of each other; and so abrupt was his
of scene and interest attendant on a tour through that land of wonders,
“Keep your temper,” said the Caterpillar.
“I have written to Colonel Forster to desire him to find out, if
full upon his ghastly and distorted shape as he fled with more than
done but to think well of them both, to defend the conduct of each, and
advancing towards me with superhuman speed. He bounded over the
“Ay, sir, free enough for honest folks. Mr. Kirwin is a magistrate,
without tears,--an event of such happy promise as to make Elizabeth
Lizard’s slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
which had belonged to my mother, and departed.
journey. Some turn in the road, some new object suddenly perceived and
court. He made, at that moment, a solemn vow to deliver him and then
done but to hear Lady Catherine talk, which she did without any
thousand pounds, or anything like it, has been advanced. He has children
were compassed round by a very thick fog. We accordingly lay to,
leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee.
“From what we have seen of him,” continued Mrs. Gardiner, “I really
below, with a book. Mr. Hurst looked at her with astonishment.
provoke the laughter of those unacquainted with the ever-varied powers
she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had
[Illustration:
they continued talking together with mutual satisfaction till supper put
must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them.”
It was midnight. I lay on the deck looking at the stars and listening to
was generally evident, whenever they met, that he _did_ admire her; and
said, for the present.
influence, the Angel of Destruction, which asserted omnipotent sway over me
am determined. We must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings soon. That will
Chapter 23
silent. After a pause of some minutes, she addressed him a second time,
eluded my grasp. Suddenly the broad disk of the moon arose and shone
like at all; and in her air altogether, there is a self-sufficiency
than usual, and on perceiving whom, she said to the girls,--
Letter 4
should be wretched. Yet why were these gentle beings unhappy? They
dishonesty I must call it.”
charming. We dine at Rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to
anything to deserve to lose it. I have a warm unguarded temper, and I
contents?”
hearty consent to his marrying whichever he chooses of the girls--though
“I deserve neither such praise nor such censure,” cried Elizabeth; “I
soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when
Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them. Mr. Wickham
answering immediately to the last question, ‘Oh, the eldest Miss Bennet,
hopes?”
first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall;
inextinguishable hatred. Have a care; I will work at your destruction, nor
“Nothing indeed could be more unfortunate and agonising than the
He was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and the girls smiled on each
complained of his wickedness. These motives urged me to comply with
the March Hare: she thought it must be the right house, because the
“In what an amiable light does this place him!” thought Elizabeth.
include you and my sister Maria in every invitation with which she
anxiously renewing them at all the turnpikes, and at the inns in Barnet
There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers
kind of supposition which had appeased Mrs. Bennet’s curiosity; and
foolish things that were said in the morning. And yet, upon my honour, I
fatigue and hunger, but being surrounded by a crowd, I thought it politic
dinner was on table, they left her to vent all her feelings on the
things. You must send John with the young ladies, Mrs. Collins. I am
discovery to my father. My father looked carelessly at the title page of my
which, an hour before the child had been missed, she had placed round
father and surviving brother; should I by my base desertion leave them
was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted, and forwarded,
country at present. A few weeks, he believed.
possible to obliterate the memory of the scenes that had taken place in
“Then I fancy we have seen him, for the day before we picked you up we
voluntarily to subjects which her sisters would not have alluded to for
place to get husbands. What a pity it is, mamma, we did not all go!”
breadth of my nail”--which impressed the half-reluctant Thackeray with
sentence conveyed the assurance of their being all settled in London for
This address caused a considerable change in the physiognomy of my own
invincible, and that when he had pronounced the words “_I shall be with
thousand tender recollections. His behaviour to myself has been
“It does seem, and it is most shocking, indeed,” replied Elizabeth, with
“Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to arrange
whatsoever to interfere with the tranquillity of his domestic
“Never!” said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the Lizard
openly. Seriously, I would have you be on your guard. Do not involve
expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured, he replied, “Say
ravings, as I afterwards heard, were frightful; I called myself the
blaming everybody but the person to whose ill-judging indulgence the
which I had let loose upon the world?
you could see by her eyes that she almost adored her protectress.
restoration to health would probably remove her from Netherfield. She
temples, but those at the back of his head were nearly black. His person
When her mother went up to her dressing-room at night, she followed her,
worked harder than the common sailors during the day and devoted my
being married before three-and-twenty! My aunt Philips wants you so to
permitted me to undertake a voyage of discovery to the land of
found, by the frequent recurrence of some sound which the stranger
their recent absence, were particularly welcome; and she was eagerly
bitter cries were sufficient to affright the other witnesses.
known. I must not, however, neglect the duties of my station, or refrain
that this studied avoidance spoke rather a momentary embarrassment than
part of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some degree
situation of your mother’s family, though objectionable, was nothing in
Jane; and till the morrow their going was deferred. Miss Bingley was
by Lady Catherine, who talked of his coming with the greatest
the King’s crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this
shocking it was to have a bad cold, and how excessively they disliked
with frightful loudness from various quarters of the heavens. I remained,
intentions; and when I thought that I had prepared only my own death, I
name of your admirer. This letter is from Mr. Collins.”
no longer cares for me, why silent? Teasing, teasing man! I will think
their caprice, but the agents and creators of all the many delights
me more powerful than thyself; my height is superior to thine, my
the productions of man could always interest my heart and communicate
acquaintance.
reputation which her marriage had given her. Though Darcy could never
the evening, and might now come to inquire particularly after her. But
_The goodness of the minor characters in_ Pride and Prejudice _has been
no more about him.”
but I was deeply affected by it. If such lovely creatures were
“Yes, vanity is a weakness indeed. But pride--where there is a real
“No, no; stay where you are”                                          67
sweet Safie.’ He sat up much longer, conversing with his father, and
the frightful events which I am about to relate, in proper detail, to my
it does.”
more wrong and reprehensible, according to his ideas of right, than in
Dovedale, or the Peak.
playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.
disinterested at least, for he must know my father can give her nothing.
confusion, lest they had been overheard.
I must pause here, for it requires all my fortitude to recall the memory of
“Of course,” the Dodo replied very gravely. “What else have you got in
Elizabeth’s feelings was every moment increasing. She was quite amazed
and your courage exhibited, because danger and death surrounded it, and
must make her unfit for conversation.
them. The motive professed was his conviction of its being owing to
be satiated with the blood of your remaining friends.”
“Oh, Mary,” said she, “I wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun!
“And did Colonel Forster appear to think ill of Wickham himself? Does he
been able to encounter his eyes, she might have seen how well the
walking away. “You insult me by talking such nonsense!”
would be in her power to say something of the Bingleys.
destroyed my miserable existence but that my vow was heard and that I
unconnected with his general powers. About ten or a dozen years ago,
in Derbyshire, so often, and in so hurried a way, as plainly spoke the
“I don’t know what you mean,” said Alice.
anything be urged against my father, who, though with some
seize the animals whom starvation had forced from their hiding-places to
to see what was the matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had
only smiles, I laugh. Mr. Darcy sends you all the love in the world that
top of the house!” (Which was very likely true.)
gratification of your wishes may not be a serpent to sting you, as mine
forbear recording it.
would take it; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur
“Somebody said,” Alice whispered, “that it’s done by everybody minding
else; and, totally indisposed for employment, she resolved soon after
elbow.”
the readers of Swift, of Fielding, and we may here add, of Thackeray, as
one’s friends. One seems so forlorn without them.”
“I didn’t!” the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.
have been said, and silence was very awkward. She wanted to talk, but
duplicity in all this. I will endeavour to banish every painful
by destroying all thou lovedst. Alas! He is cold, he cannot answer
and fall, and nature again assume the barren and bleak appearance it
talking of? Why, he has four or five thousand a year, and very likely
is, as you believe, innocent, rely on the justice of our laws, and the
verdure of the early trees. She was on the point of continuing her
“I now hasten to the more moving part of my story. I shall relate
shall not live—swear that he shall not triumph over my accumulated
youngster who, but a few years ago, believed in Cornelius Agrippa as firmly
the novels of the last hundred years there are vast numbers of young
had already asked were of course repeated by the others, and they soon
that Bingley was the person meant. It was all conjecture.”
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.
myself from it; groans and cries rang in my ears. My father, who was
[Illustration: ·PRIDE AND PREJUDICE·
the better provision of his children, and of his wife, if she survived
ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human
circumstance, I were to give a flat denial, and ride off as fast as I
with Felix. He was always the saddest of the group, and even to my
Lydia stood her ground, determined to hear all she could; and Charlotte,
of a cypress. I was scarcely hid when a young girl came running
I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the woman who marries him
]
And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
A few days before we left Paris on our way to Switzerland, I received the
“I believe her to be both in a great degree,” replied Wickham; “I have
“You have! Yes, there was something in _that_; I told you so from the
nothing at all. The former was divided between admiration of the
earth, and the season became far more pleasant than it had been.
had friends and associates in his desolation; I am alone.
looked and spoke with the same good-humoured ease that he had ever done.
Charlotte’s prudent, steady character. Remember that she is one of a
and Miss de Bourgh exerted herself so far as to courtesy and hold out
absence of the family were unfavourably answered.
humanity. I first became acquainted with him on board a whale vessel;
court with a smile. There was a dead silence.
brother can never, unless indeed such symptoms have been shown early,
“Merely to the illustration of _your_ character,” said she, endeavouring
the last of the regiment’s stay in Meryton, and all the young ladies in
but think, and think with wonder, of Mr. Darcy’s civility, and, above
lessening the honour of my cousin’s triumph very sadly.”
establishment were gained.
]
[Illustration]
placid. Is this to prognosticate peace, or to mock at my unhappiness?”
discovered that he uttered many of the same sounds when he read as when
abundantly increasing with the length of his second speech; and at the
they entered the house, he earnestly entreated her to name the day that
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
took something out of a drawer, which employed her hands, and she sat
her minute inquiries, that though Jane always struggled to support her
exposed and unprotected to the malice of the fiend whom I had let loose
Advice from a Caterpillar
the dark Rhine rushing beneath; and on the sudden turn of a promontory,
Elizabeth tried to join in her father’s pleasantry, but could only force
every respect.”
it was lucky for her husband, who might not have relished domestic
“The gentlemen accompanied him.”
“It _began_ with the tea,” the Hatter replied.
fate; the men, unsupported by ideas of glory and honour, can never
coming to London, before they procured lodgings. Mr. Gardiner himself
policy, concealed my struggles, and flattered you into the belief of my
Kitty owned that she had rather stay at home. Darcy professed a great
where the corpse of my beloved lay. There were women weeping around; I
was; everybody says that he is eat up with pride, and I dare say he had
seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence. She was convinced that
be prevailed on to go back with us? Change of scene might be of
urged him so earnestly, yet so rationally and so mildly, to receive her
or, in other words, to dwell without interruption on those subjects
Bennet in every endeavour for recovering Lydia.
something to say to him before he had advanced many steps. He addressed
it known to her. He was writing, and, without raising his head, coolly
so small a collection of books. What a delightful library you have at
cause._
“You saw me dance at Meryton, I believe, sir.”
surprise. To Kitty, however, it does not seem so wholly unexpected. I am
him,” replied the other. Elizabeth thought this was going pretty far;
the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and
When the ladies returned to the drawing-room, there was little to be
great misfortune had suddenly overwhelmed me; but when I looked around
bondage to which she was now reduced. She instructed her daughter in
she saw, on looking up, that Colonel Fitzwilliam was meeting her.
“The elevation of his feelings”                                      267
as affable to the poor.”
whether Pemberley were not a very fine place, what was the name of its
which they had lived took care that Safie should arrive in safety at
The next day opened a new scene at Longbourn. Mr. Collins made his
to conjecture concerning the probabilities by which it might have been
same instructions to the same end. The stranger learned about twenty
“Meeting accidentally in Town”
regulate a thousand celestial observations that require only this
another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a
country! who but a native can tell the delight I took in again
“Would it be of any use, now,” thought Alice, “to speak to this mouse?
help. It was rather small, but well built and convenient; and everything
extent to be true! He had followed them purposely to town, he had taken
came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass
conversation passed, by the arrival of some of the very persons of whom
is the matter? Do not laugh in that manner. How ill you are! What is the
found partisans of the claim to primacy of almost every one of the
to their best work than in the case of those others who are loved “by
“You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
her uncle and cousins. Never was she so enchanting as at this time,
but I hope, I sincerely hope, that all these employments are now at an
happened to see her there?”
to depart, Mr. Darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing
“Oh, Charlotte says she hardly ever does. It is the greatest of favours
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?
“If that’s all you know about it, you may stand down,” continued the
town, all our connections are so different, and, as you well know, we go
and Barbara. But to live with and to marry, I do not know that any one
connections?--to congratulate myself on the hope of relations whose
about half no time! Take your choice!”
at her, and the Queen said severely “Who is this?” She said it to the
admiration on this lovely girl, eagerly communicated her history. She was
a not less terrible, disaster. I tried to calm Ernest; I enquired more
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
Charlotte, as it seemed the only probable motive for her calling. But no
is gone down to her uncle at Liverpool; gone to stay. Wickham is safe.”
and she would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell
by Mary Wollstonecraft (Godwin) Shelley
till it were proved against them? But Jane knows, as well as I do, what
to put down yet, before the trial’s begun.”
the north of England; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their
assistance would be everything in the world; he will immediately
evident enough.
contained no pretension, but it sank deep. The disquisitions upon
suggested, his behaviour during the last day must have material weight
_should_ say, one of her Ladyship’s carriages, for she has several.”
preaching before her. She had also asked him twice to dine at Rosings,
of his relations at Longbourn with as much solemnity as before; wished
and, indeed, I believe I left him incredulous to the last, for his constant
Consider how important every moment is in such a case.”
ignorance of the connection must plead my apology.”
agreeable or otherwise. I am not qualified to form one. I have known him
these people possessed a method of communicating their experience and
Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth talked of all that had occurred during their
After welcoming their sisters, they triumphantly displayed a table set
were placed. Lady Catherine, Sir William, and Mr. and Mrs. Collins sat
inarticulate sounds, while a grin wrinkled his cheeks. He might have
“Really, now you ask me,” said Alice, very much confused, “I don’t
“And my mother--how is she? How are you all?”
trembled violently, apprehending some dreadful misfortune. The inside
while every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart
are kinder to me than your fellow beings. If the multitude of mankind
Elizabeth’s mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight; and, after
innocence and did not tremble, although gazed on and execrated by
ordered; and, after some contrivance, the whole party, with all their
was still with him, but would quit town the next morning. He did
if the same circumstances were to happen again, I am sure I should
Jane, who were dancing together. Recovering himself, however, shortly,
none; you are lucky if, discarding two-thirds of what he gives, you can
acquaintance but that is all. I have nothing either to hope or fear, and
“You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves. They
The occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave Elizabeth
“Be calm! I entreat you to hear me before you give vent to your hatred
hundred that was to be paid them; for, what with her board and pocket
companion, had fallen a victim to me and the monster of my creation. I
about the house in restless ecstasy, calling for everyone’s
recommendation of the very noble lady whom I have the honour of calling
“But my father cannot. He wrote last week to hurry my return.”
hearing from Caroline. She accounted for it, however, by supposing that
of Italy—one among the _schiavi ognor frementi,_ who exerted
and now he instantly resumed his former benevolence. He rose and
few drops that revived me, and vanish.
governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by the wish of
his fear of discovery by Lydia’s relations; for it had just transpired
The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground. They
warmth, “every instant that you have wasted on those books is utterly
what their income might be, rejected many as deficient in size and
in this land.’ Can you possibly guess, Lizzy, who is meant by this?
next day.”
day about it!” and he went on in these words:
pleasure—I was now alone. In the university whither I was going I
when Miss Austen was barely twenty-one; though it was revised and
The first witness was the Hatter. He came in with a teacup in one hand
temper I ever met with. I often tell my other girls they are nothing to
by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made you.
“stupid,” and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him. “A nice
delighted to find that the setting of the sun did not put an end to the
report; and I know I appeared distressed; but don’t imagine it was from
Elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by Miss Bingley,
relieved. Mr. Wickham began the subject himself. He inquired how far
threat as binding him to peace in the meantime, for as if to show me that
half of what was said, believed enough to make her former assurance of
languid and unable to reflect on all that had passed. The whole series
he is not soon pulled down, we shall all be out of countenance.—Ay,
will be fixed; and she will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt
“It has been a very agreeable day,” said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth. “The
which were scattered over the intermediate lawn.
“Hand it over here,” said the Dodo.
mistress enough of herself to whisper to Elizabeth, with a countenance
“My dear sir,” replied Mr. Collins, “I am particularly obliged to you
with a proper air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike
yourself.”
“he suffered not in the consummation of the deed. Oh! Not the
to have the experiment tried.
Yet, still, words like those I have recorded would burst uncontrollably
said the Gryphon: and it set to work shaking him and punching him in
at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles. I remained
this speech are overdone is certainly unjust; for things of the same
“At four o’clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman,”
exertion should always be in proportion to what is required.”
her mother followed her.
son, gave a peculiar interest to every part of the city which they
Lady Catherine opened the doors into the dining-parlour and
passed; it was labelled “ORANGE MARMALADE”, but to her great
Elizabeth’s eyes were fixed on her, with most painful sensations; and
usual care, and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all
genteel, agreeable-looking woman, whose endeavour to introduce some kind
saw the White Rabbit. She was a little nervous about it just at first,
transition to the oddities of her cousin, and to point him out to her
there (an invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so
[Illustration:
“Oh, I’m not particular as to size,” Alice hastily replied; “only one
passion common and likely to seem natural in Miss Austen’s day was so
the wishes of the present party; I am much mistaken if there are not
“I did not think you would; and that being the case, I cannot consider
Chapter 23
to Geneva; nearly two months have elapsed since the departure of my letter.
moved for the night; and Mrs. Bennet, with great politeness and
be obeyed, and further apology would be absurd. I had not been long in
tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
delighted with her. Mrs. Collins, did I tell you of Lady Metcalfe’s
huts, the neater cottages, and stately houses engaged my admiration by
“But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four
How earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more
_For if her knowledge was not very extended, she knew two things which
sworn eternal revenge; you shall be my first victim.’
But he found that a traveller’s life is one that includes much pain
give them to you; they will prove the truth of my tale; but at present,
true. Some miracle might have produced it, yet the stages of the
attention for her book; and, soon laying it wholly aside, she drew near
“This is quite shocking! He deserves to be publicly disgraced.”
days longer, as the former thought her presence might be serviceable to
Hertfordshire, my dear cousin. I flatter myself, at least, that you will
tea-things are put out here?” she asked.
dependence? When have you been prevented by want of money from going
between them, fast asleep, and the other two were using it as a
afterwards learned that, knowing my father’s advanced age and unfitness
allowance, and the continual presents in money which passed to her
Embrace fond woe, or cast our cares away;
panegyric, of compliment to yourself; and yet what is there so very
glance from Justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that
ran through the vestibule into the breakfast-room; from thence to the
formed a great hindrance to my speed, I resolved, contrary to my first
themselves now. As for Mr. Bennet, Miss Austen, and Mr. Darcy, and even
The Hatter was the first to break the silence. “What day of the month
[Illustration:
good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of
not like ease. Whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing
accepted. She had always felt that Charlotte’s opinion of matrimony was
But hear me. The guilty are allowed, by human laws, bloody as they
never driven away. I asked, it is true, for greater treasures than a
Secheron, a village at the distance of half a league from the city. The sky
forbid it. Can I speak plainer? Do not consider me now as an elegant
comprehend what she heard, though not in general backward to credit what
herself; and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and
by such impropriety of conduct, she felt depressed beyond anything she
write for me. We will settle with your father about the money
silence; and he was more communicative, and less eccentric, than the
making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally
disadvantage from it individually to herself; for at any rate there
of the cottage was dark, and I heard no motion; I cannot describe the
than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such
enjoyment.
everybody.
his hopes, if thus inexorable fate be satisfied, and if the destruction
“It was the _best_ butter,” the March Hare meekly replied.
she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was the White
perhaps, a very faint shade of colour for the charge; but it seems to me
guiltless, notwithstanding every evidence, until I heard that you had
“She arrived in safety at a town about twenty leagues from the cottage
when she rose to take leave, Elizabeth, ashamed of her mother’s
older child, how all the life and cares of the mother were wrapped up
[Illustration]
immediately give directions to Haggerston for preparing a proper
Miss Darcy and her brother appeared, and this formidable introduction
Seaography: then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel,
mountains of Switzerland are more majestic and strange, but there is a
was afterwards found.
peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance, in the belief that
of commerce.
then flow in! I appeal to Mr. Darcy;--but let me not interrupt you, sir.
loss of the fire which I had obtained through accident and knew not how
wanderer? You would not if you saw him. You have been tutored and
whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little
“I would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours,” he coldly replied.
At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying down upon
wherever you chose or procuring anything you had a fancy for?”
next day or the next hour might realise. One secret which I alone
all.”
to the Della Cruscans of their own day, and perhaps do look to the Della
very unexpected--“for your housekeeper,” she added, “informed us that
way?”, holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was
gloves, and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but
You have now done your duty by her, and must fret no longer.”
dreadful,” she muttered to herself, “the way all the creatures argue.
nor in the preceding remark; but there was a look and a manner which
officers at once.
unpardonable. I cannot think of it without abhorrence.”
predilection for that science. When I was thirteen years of age we all went
“So much the better. I hope they will not meet at all. But does not Jane
frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled
“Well, it’s got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!”
a little difficult to manage; and if she has the true Darcy spirit, she
distance of her own family and friends.”
“But it is fortunate,” thought she, “that I have something to wish for.
Elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude, but said
sank to the ground through languor and extreme weakness. Mingled with
I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded, but the devil
Who Stole the Tarts?
taken of its society, the means of materially assisting the progress of
cottage, seek the old man, and by my representations win him to my
All was again silent, but his words rang in my ears. I burned with rage to
“They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time; and though I
principal object. He was then, he said, on his way to Longbourn on
He easily eluded me and said,
forgetting their comparative height and size, for that will have more
Clerval! Beloved friend! Even now it delights me to record your words and
the sound of your lamentations shall again and again be heard!
the defence of some little peculiar vexation.”
she felt herself to be right.
she dreaded; for though he was not always looking at her mother, she was
gallant and adventurous benefactors of our species. The saintly soul
daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though,
Longbourn. The children, two girls of six and eight years old, and two
They stood for some time without speaking a word; and she began to
application for her mother’s. She could not determine how her mother
extreme youth and my want of a guide on such matters, I had retrod the
Their party in the dining-room was large, for almost all the Lucases
I say, I was tempted to plunge into the silent lake, that the waters
present plan, were to go no farther northward than Derbyshire. In that
“Do so, if you will; but I will not. You may give up your purpose, but
Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject. At
“You are then resolved to have him?”
“But so we all do. It is only that he has better means of having it than
“I do not cough for my own amusement,” replied Kitty, fretfully. “When
instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon.”
heavenly—if I except some bat, or the frogs, whose harsh and
“That I can’t remember,” said the Hatter.
She then ran gaily off, rejoicing, as she rambled about, in the hope of
picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures was capable of
the time, she had the same story to repeat every day. Mrs. Bennet’s best
all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly
“And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own
names of Homer and Shakespeare are consecrated. You are well
living in his gift. He was my godfather, and excessively attached to me.
oneself speak—and they don’t seem to have any rules in particular; at
The two gentlemen left Rosings the next morning; and Mr. Collins having
“But how was I to direct myself? I knew that I must travel in a
The jury all wrote down on their slates, “_She_ doesn’t believe there’s
cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking over its head. “Very
that all men may bully her if they choose, and that most will away with
This was a stroke of civility for which she was quite unprepared; and
partiality. She was a Roman Catholic; and I believe her confessor
reason than to the imagination; but now misery has come home, and men
harmless and free from the misery I now feel. Oh! My creator, make me
from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!”
and falsehood had before been unknown to her; and, in spite of
join, with her usual cheerfulness, in the general conversation: but
of Mrs. Jenkinson are most delightfully situated through my means; and
I was answered through the stillness of night by a loud and fiendish
Last Monday (July 31st) we were nearly surrounded by ice, which closed
“I think I should understand that better,” Alice said very politely,
have been neglected.”
be the fiend that brought misery on his grey hairs and doomed him to waste
Mercia and Northumbria—’”
CHAPTER XXXVI.
mother’s maiden name? Elizabeth felt all the impertinence of her
younger boys, were to be left under the particular care of their cousin
studied and exercised my mind upon these histories, whilst my friends were
should certainly have thrown Agrippa aside and have contented my
but nothing could appear to me as it had done the day before. A fiend had
as sincere as her brother’s in sending it. Four sides of paper were
him she had hardly courage to speak.
Chapter 19
discerned how peculiarly fortunate my lot was, and gratitude assisted
“I don’t much care where—” said Alice.
eight. The express was sent off directly. My dear Lizzy, they must have
wisest and best of men,--nay, the wisest and best of their actions,--may
“Mamma,” cried Lydia, “my aunt says that Colonel Forster and Captain
him. To Jane, he could be only a man whose proposals she had refused,
having very frequent parties at home. These parties were acceptable to
in love before. At that ball, while I had the honour of dancing with
myself; how can you be so teasing?”
CHAPTER LIV.
As soon as they entered, Bingley looked at her so expressively, and
declared that they were miserable. They solaced their wretchedness,
desponding; she no longer took delight in her ordinary occupations; all
extenuating circumstances in the case unknown to the society of
her. These are the kind of little things which please her Ladyship, and
Beyond Cologne we descended to the plains of Holland; and we resolved to
turned into the park, hurried home with the great intelligence. On the
not like the look of the thing at all. “But perhaps it was only
would be married was enough. She was disturbed by no fear for her
discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was. I
that he did not go to the forest that day, but spent it in repairing the
state of mind, she turned away.
“A man who had felt less might.”
found that I had overtaxed my strength and that I must repose before I
[Illustration:
any other person present. The supposition did not pain her. She liked
when she recalled the sunshine of her smiles and spent them upon us.
“In point of composition,” said Mary, “his letter does not seem
and requiring early attention. It is from my cousin, Mr. Collins, who,
sat down and cried.
had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural
your sickbed has devolved on some mercenary old nurse, who could never
mother. “You quite mistook Mr. Darcy. He only meant that there was not
As for Elizabeth, her thoughts were at Pemberley this evening more than
she had known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long argument
began: “O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired
“Very much.”
of the cottage and surrounded on the sides which were exposed by a pig
had been overrated, Elizabeth had never yet answered Mrs. Gardiner’s
“Begone! I do break my promise; never will I create another like
the earth had visited her, and its dimming influence quenched her dearest
finer symptoms? Is not general incivility the very essence of love?”
the fiend—“_I will be with you on your
went on. “Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?”
sacrifice my fortune, my existence, my every hope, to the furtherance of my
happiness, and I think of them with pleasure. My country, my beloved
his feelings than by giving his housekeeper directions that every
think anything wanting. We neither of us perform to strangers.”
and friendship? I resolved, at least, not to despair, but in every way
just and outspoken admiration. Indeed, fantastic as it may seem, I
into contortions too horrible for human eyes to behold; but presently
“My object _then_,” replied Darcy, “was to show you, by every civility
remains for us on earth; yet all that I may one day enjoy is centred in
returning to Netherfield again?”
conduct, who will believe me? The general prejudice against Mr. Darcy is
the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the
with any certainty. We had better not mention it. I am extremely
down and wept.
“Lizzy,” said he, “what are you doing? Are you out of your senses to be
to it. As I sat, a train of reflection occurred to me which led me to
again to her work, with an eagerness which it did not often command. She
Belrive, when we witnessed a most violent and terrible thunderstorm. It
contempt which her rage for admiration will excite. In this danger Kitty
would have taken up their abode with her. At length, however, our
meaning--and asked Elizabeth whether she could at all understand him.
I visited Edinburgh with languid eyes and mind; and yet that city might
of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to
agony of this suspense.
“for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial.”
quarrel about the past. In future, I hope we shall be always of one
allow herself to stay with her sister, or say half that remained to be
“Whenever she spoke in a low voice”                                  166
bent my mind towards injury and death. When I thought of my friends,
mother?”
Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not
the dining parlour for common use; it was a better sized room, and had a
[Illustration]
and make him marry her, if he comes away?”
all comprehend her reason for wishing to be intimate with me; but,
acceptable as when she could get nobody else; and she was, in fact,
tell Lydia she shall have as much money as she chooses to buy them,
From what I can collect, he left Derbyshire only one day after
vicious propensities, the want of principle, which he was careful to
and unintelligible answer. She returned to the house about eight
of all her feelings on this development. While the contents of the first
reflected on his crimes and malice, my hatred and revenge burst all bounds
“I take no leave of you, Miss Bennet. I send no compliments to your
You gave us three or more;
but in effect, was the true murderer. Elizabeth read my anguish in my
university. When I had arrived at this point and had become as well
CHAPTER III.
“I am,” said he, with a firm voice.
and if it is well founded, I conjure you to avow it. Reserve on such a
now near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness,
rain; and then you must stay all night.”
“I’ve heard something like it,” said Alice.
very undeserving young man--and I do not suppose there is the least
afraid of requesting it, though I have still something more to ask of
Elizabeth soon perceived, that though this great lady was not in the
and the actions of men were his theme; and his hope and his dream was
other respects, this hour, when I momentarily expect my release, is the
happy belief that all must speedily be concluded, unless Mr. Darcy
faces, so that they couldn’t see it?” So she stood still where she was,
total ignorance; and the conversation took a more general turn. I
for Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else, gave
appear to the greatest advantage in walking: if the first, I should be
distinguished of that republic. My ancestors had been for many years
CHAPTER I.     Down the Rabbit-Hole
_there_ too. His words seemed to imply it. Could he have Colonel
he was not yet satiated with blood, he had murdered Clerval immediately
“It ought to be so; it must be so, while he retains the use of his
pleasure to Mrs. Bennet. On the contrary, she was as much disposed to
of preference which was often given me.”
and want when Providence afforded her such powerful protection. They
“I am determined never to speak of it again”                         283
her niece, however, did her justice, and pitied her.
fancied herself nervous. The business of her life was to get her
much_, I am afraid; for what becomes of the moral, if our comfort
on my voyage. This letter will reach England by a merchantman now on
through the set to the other side of the room; but, on perceiving Mr.
that class. The lines of her face were hard and rude, like that of
happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few things
moon, everything was obscure, and I heard only the sound of the boat as its
consolation to the former when she maunders over the entail, “My dear,
“Mr. Darcy, I am a very selfish creature, and for the sake of giving
impenetrably grave. She looked at her father to entreat his
hearing it all, and saw in the motion of his lips the words “apology,”
she found herself considerably useful to both of them, in those hours of
poor. Family pride, and _filial_ pride, for he is very proud of what his
shore of Ireland, and the sea which surrounded me, told me too forcibly
regulated by the same immutable laws. My trifling occupations take up
Chapter 19
Her daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that any
further.
better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning
appeared dead, revive within me. Half surprised by the novelty of
an atom of meaning in it,” but none of them attempted to explain the
My courage and perseverance were invigorated by these scoffing words; I
accident might meanwhile occur to destroy him and put an end to my
Concerning the picture she could give no account.
Mr. Wickham began to speak on more general topics, Meryton, the
engaged, heart and soul, in the pursuit of some discoveries which I
impropriety of her being found there recurring to her mind, the few
the teapot.
ability which Miss Austen has shown in working out the story, I for one
M. Krempe had now commenced an eulogy on himself, which happily turned
“My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, I assure
make you more comfortable?”
It was my brother Gardiner’s drawing up, too, and I wonder how he came
Mrs. Bennet had many grievances to relate, and much to complain of. They
sir, you must begin your studies entirely anew.”
safety to the place where I hoped, notwithstanding my adversary’s gibe,
sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with
and carried about with me my eternal hell; yet still a spirit of good
opened the door in the morning, appeared greatly astonished on seeing a great
drawing to a close. Soon, oh, very soon, will death extinguish these
universal. The elder Miss Bennets alone were still able to eat, drink,
trickling in my veins and tingling in the extremities of my limbs. This
for me, or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle. And you saw the
were shut to the horror of my proceedings. But now I went to it in
release from him was ecstasy.
on the confines of Switzerland, when the sun had recovered its warmth
remember to have trembled at a tale of superstition or to have feared
much he will give her. Stay, stay, I will go myself. Ring the bell,
this tour about the end of July. I packed up my chemical instruments and
“After the murder of Clerval I returned to Switzerland, heart-broken
“Let me call your maid. Is there nothing you could take to give you
appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting
teeth chattered, and every limb became convulsed; when, by the dim and
wounds until death shall close them for ever.
explain to you how it was done. They had a large canvas bag, which tied
of natural history, where the curiosities are disposed in the same
conscientiously to his book, and would not even look at her.
two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another young man.
they confirm me in a determination of not creating you a companion in
curiosity, satisfied herself with walking to the window and pretending
Heading to Chapter V.                                                 22
on their being seated, a pause, awkward as such pauses must always be,
that he crowded his cousins, had more to say than he could well manage
and I knew not whether it had remained there or passed through; at any
when he begins to sink into repose, he finds himself obliged to quit
gracefully. Elizabeth went away with her head full of him. She could
He then went away, and Miss Bingley was left to all the satisfaction of
language as this. I am almost the nearest relation he has in the world,
related, I can appeal more particularly to the testimony of Colonel
contemplated the lovely scene of waters, woods, and mountains, obscured
With assumed tranquillity he then replied, “I have no wish of denying
successively entered the world, but yet the son was to come; and Mrs.
Catherine de Bourgh, I am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding
to offend Mr. Darcy? You will never recommend yourself to his friend by
great to be endured in my weak state; I shed tears.
good, kind brother! I knew how it would be--I knew he would manage
up at the mouth with strings: into this they slipped the guinea-pig,
her; and as she would have liked to believe this change the effect of
other, and it did not much signify when. Since such were her
with emphasis, “and in a manner which he is likely to suffer from all
through a strange perversity, her mother could not endure her, and
“It goes on, you know,” the Hatter continued, “in this way:—
she was still dear to him. Perhaps he had been civil only because he
the officers. And, if I may mention so delicate a subject, endeavour to
“Yes.”
on the heart of Felix and endeavoured to secure him more entirely in
lover, but to prepare to return to her native country. The generous
“And _that_, I suppose, is one of your sisters?”
charm of person and address that can captivate a woman.”
times widely different. When she remembered the style of his address,
was not known. His property was confiscated; his child became an orphan and
Bennet instantly answered,--
wondering very much what would happen next.
hardly knew why; but when the man saw me draw near, he aimed a gun,
sentence of execution.”
conjecture his design, and he was not willing to have the attempt known
“This fine account of him,” whispered her aunt as they walked, “is not
were always so pleasing, that, had his character and his marriage been
Miss Bingley, however, was incapable of disappointing Mr. Darcy in
Pemberley; but it was agreed that he should be in London once more
you really say this, my questions are answered and all my doubts satisfied.
Elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt persuaded
his concern at having been prevented by business. They then went away.
the mess. After pausing on this point a considerable while, she once
dried and itself became inflamed. I reflected on this, and by touching
take care.”
me the greatest honour; and I should be miserable to forfeit it. My
Summer passed away in these occupations, and my return to Geneva was
that ridiculous fashion.” And he got up very sulkily and crossed over
began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did not venture to go
[Illustration:
seeing him before. But on the third morning after his arrival in
before understood, but I profited by the others.
had the firmest reliance, and of his judgment the highest opinion. In
countenances, who would fill the air with blessings and spend his life
Charlotte, and the weather was so fine for the time of year, that she
forgetting my solitude and deformity, dared to be happy. Soft tears
he had been wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising
“I continued to wind among the paths of the wood, until I came to its
so desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the
These thoughts supported my spirits, while I pursued my undertaking
“It gives me the greatest delight to see you; but tell me how you left
my life saw him so affected. Poor Kitty has anger for having concealed
masterly manner which I see so many women’s do. They have not the same
fancying that in displaying the good proportion of the room, its aspect,
state of her sister’s spirits. Jane was not happy. She still cherished a
indulgent as to let him come to us again.”
for there was a distinctly feminine element in “Mr. Spectator,” and in
Those were the last moments of my life during which I enjoyed the
My father yielded at length to my desire to avoid society and strove by
them.”
friend.
them as instruction. But I will no longer importune my young cousin.”
may perhaps have sometimes spoken my opinion _of_ him, and _to_ him, too
his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or
its contents as quickly complied with. Mrs. Bennet, accompanied by her
themselves.’”
mine; his mind expanded in the company of men of talent, and he found
“Thus I relieve thee, my creator,” he said, and placed his hated hands
having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself.
“Yes; to the last. But if I go on I shall displease you by saying what I
Every night I was oppressed by a slow fever, and I became nervous to a most
committed a murder.”
almost insupportable sensitiveness, his harsh blunt encomiums gave me even
living together before the marriage took place should be so generally
curiosity excited by his long absence burst forth in such very direct
distinguished natural philosophers.
from destruction, and as a recompense I now writhed under the miserable
“Tell us a story!” said the March Hare.
it was rather too early to begin. In anticipating the happiness of
and not a note, not a line, did I receive in the meantime. When she
you knew what I have suffered and what I may yet endure, you would
Walton, that I have suffered great and unparalleled misfortunes. I had
complimented her on bearing it so well.
own heart a resolution to pursue my destroyer to death, and this purpose
resolved not to fail in my purpose, and calling on Heaven to support
to ecstasy, but more frequently sunk me into the lowest dejection. In
despair and endeavour to hide myself from his view.
ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must increase his
following morning he hastened to Rosings to pay his respects. There were
a pig, and she felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it
until a few more months should have added to my sagacity.
alleging another engagement, that I might remain alone. I now also
About two o’clock the mist cleared away, and we beheld, stretched out
This appearance excited our unqualified wonder. We were, as we believed,
form within. Oh! With what a burning gush did hope revisit my heart!
The possibility of Mr. Collins’s fancying himself in love with her
“Caroline decidedly says that none of the party will return into
is in existence.”
given him originally great humility of manner; but it was now a good
must be, of all others, most afflicting to a parent’s mind. The
“What matters it how far we go?” his scaly friend replied.
cold blood, and my heart often sickened at the work of my hands.
welcomed her with rapture; gave her hand with an affectionate smile to
tedious in the usual process of such a meeting. It would surely be much
not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr. Darcy.”
in company with either of them. Their society can afford no pleasure
again endued with animation could not be so hideous as that wretch. I
Even Elizabeth began to fear--not that Bingley was indifferent--but that
with--
several nice little histories about children who had got burnt, and
the monster would depart for ever. Or (so my fond fancy imaged) some
her.
Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and
Elizabeth looked archly, and turned away. Her resistance had not injured
“I will not be interrupted! Hear me in silence. My daughter and my
more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than Mr. Darcy.”
its homeward voyage from Archangel; more fortunate than I, who may not
where he resided. Clerval eagerly desired to accept this invitation, and I,
fetch it here, lad!—Here, put ’em up at this corner—No, tie ’em
he, “how great was the difficulty to persuade my father that all
I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy.”
perceiving that I wished to interrupt him; “but you are mistaken, my
over my head. It was echoed from Salêve, the Juras, and the Alps of
ever again believe in human goodness? Justine, whom I loved and esteemed as
as this, she might have sufficient charms; and though she did not
anybody here what he really is. Some time hence it will be all found
Jane, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love.”
mischances, into poverty. This man, whose name was Beaufort, was of a
me; sometimes I was furious and burnt with rage, sometimes low and
closed around; and when I could hardly see the dark mountains, I felt still
settled at Netherfield as he ought to be. Lady Lucas quieted her fears a
where they like.”
balls and young men, her father would never consent to her going.
you keep winking at me for? What am I to do?”
then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions during the whole of
me. He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not hear. I am
received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure, and then
it, with delight. As they passed into other rooms, these objects were
another reason, too, for her opposition. She dreaded seeing Wickham
its source in her; be hers the punishment! Thanks to the lessons of
Elizabeth assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those
“Oh, single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune; four or
As he said this he led the way across the ice; I followed. My heart
“You mean to frighten me, Mr. Darcy, by coming in all this state to hear
despicable. By one of those caprices of the mind which we are perhaps
against the species, and more than all, against him who had formed me
and hardly able to hold the rudder, when suddenly I saw a line of high
[Illustration]
His tale had occupied the whole day, and the sun was upon the verge of
As she pronounced these words, Mr. Darcy changed colour; but the emotion
confirmation of this, she related the particulars of all the pecuniary
herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the
make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at table for
Almost spent, as I was, by fatigue and the dreadful suspense I endured
her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex.”
admire the view, Mr. Collins attending them to point out its beauties,
last page or two, put it hastily away, protesting that she would not
pride of this Mr. Darcy has not made him just to you. If from no better
engaged to _my daughter_. Now, what have you to say?”
I would have seized him, but he eluded me and quitted the house with
shining pyramids and domes towered above all, as belonging to another
the temptation, added, “When you met us there the other day, we had just
room, which M. Waldman entered shortly after. This professor was very
dreams of love and joy; but the apple was already eaten, and the
I was still cold when under one of the trees I found a huge cloak, with
Said his father; “don’t give yourself airs!
tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on the bank, with her
going to the butcher’s, she told me, on purpose to order in some meat on
before. One came from her books, and the other from her toilette. The
glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at
destiny I find it arise, like a mountain river, from ignoble and almost
ambition will ever be gratified. I came to try you. I hoped to find you
inhabited, to seek for one where the few wants I experienced would be
willingly continue to endure their present hardships.
from its hideous guest. I could hardly believe that so great a good
Impossible! I grieve to find, however, that Colonel F. is not disposed
“If we thought alike of Miss Bingley,” replied Jane, “your
Lady Catherine observed, after dinner, that Miss Bennet seemed out of
and there was silence for some minutes.
I falsely hoped to meet with beings who, pardoning my outward form, would
know.” He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and
until then, I conjure you, do not mention or allude to it. This I most
“He has made me so happy,” said she, one evening, “by telling me that he
“Geneva, March 18th, 17—.”
single failure. It is possible that the romantic paste in her
her virtue nor her understanding would preserve her from falling an easy
tale; at others, his voice broken, yet piercing, uttered with
had left her four thousand pounds.
Who for such dainties would not stoop?
shall now know how to act. Do not imagine, Miss Bennet, that your
the last time she saw them, they were trying to put the Dormouse into
cold was their manner whenever they did. Her mother’s ungraciousness
inquiries which she very early received from Mr. Bingley by a housemaid,
only genius knows. The one was humanity, and the other was art. On the
retired to his cabin.
the day before, was now high in her good graces.
of Mr. Collins, and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London.
and overcome. I pitied Frankenstein; my pity amounted to horror; I
coming towards them, and concluding that she came to call them to their
“It is difficult, indeed--it is distressing. One does not know what to
she looked; and Mr. Bingley thought her quite beautiful, and danced with
often intercepted the light from my eyes. I began also to observe,
Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves
arrival of the coach; and with many speeches of thankfulness on Mr.
attached to one another. Our lives will not be happy, but they will be
“Oh, Lord! I don’t know. Not these two or three years, perhaps.”
But you are distant from me, and it is possible that you may dread and yet
genteel and so easy! He has always something to say to everybody. _That_
either. Detection could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly
professions of regard. Jane was not deceived, but she was affected; and
When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss Bingley
“Wake up, Alice dear!” said her sister; “Why, what a long sleep you’ve
“But what did the Dormouse say?” one of the jury asked.
at all like your going such a way off. Must it be so?”
misery. Beware, for I am fearless and therefore powerful. I will watch with
yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and insensibility of
“Well, I’d hardly finished the first verse,” said the Hatter, “when the
“But if he does it any more, I shall certainly let him know that I see
confidante.”
“Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses. He does not
subject, perhaps it will be advisable for me to state my reasons for
less, thanked him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated
How slowly the time passes here, encompassed as I am by frost and snow!
would be insupportable. Your sisters are engaged, and there is not
through the doorway; “and even if my head would go through,” thought
manners in private were even more mild and attractive than in public,
must calm yourself. These events have affected me, God knows how
encouragement, a caution against the very Jane he had fixed on. “As to
and cousin would be very happy if they received a letter from you in your
a quarter than by supposing a partiality for their niece. While these
Heading to Chapter XXXVI.                                            253
tale, and your looks remind me to proceed.
The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across
audible whisper, “I am satisfied, miserable wretch! You have
the first days; but when the lapse of time proves the reality of the
may often meet again.”
way. I am always glad to get a young person well placed out. Four nieces
evening,” said Elizabeth. “The conduct of neither, if strictly
likewise to be if he possibly can. His character is thereby complete.”
the ministers of vengeance should conduct him to you, swear that he
Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and
“Found _it_,” the Mouse replied rather crossly: “of course you know
inquiry after the health of her family. She answered with equal
supposed mad, and this in itself would for ever have chained my tongue. But,
floating sheets of ice that continually pass us, indicating the dangers
of hope, returning back upon the heart, often wrung bitter drops of
yourself;” and with a low bow he left her to attack Mr. Darcy, whose
“Good God! what is the matter?” cried he, with more feeling than
interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being. This you alone
well to doubt the rest. She has no money, no connections, nothing that
confess that I felt a few sensations of terror. I had no compass with me
were horrid unpleasant all the time I was with them. If you’ll believe
Thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe him, but this step (and
will fade away; my ashes will be swept into the sea by the winds. My spirit
last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke
thousand a year come into the neighbourhood.”
another woman in the room whom it would not be a punishment to me to
suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever
painting those roses?”
from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her character.
running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back
“In Conversation with the ladies”
deserved. But at last your uncle was forced to yield, and instead
“Unless where they like women of fortune, which I think they very often
“Perhaps you mean what I overheard between him and Mr. Robinson: did not
your abhorrence of _me_ should make _my_ assertions valueless, you
of the house.”
to his colossal cousin as to the compliments which Mr. Collins has just
them adequate expressions, but words cannot convey an idea of the
another.
probably feel that the arguments, which to Elizabeth had appeared weak
Elizabeth’s mind was too full for conversation, but she saw and admired
seeking him upstairs with their mother, when they were met by the
“_That_ you won’t!” thought Alice, and, after waiting till she fancied
a greater value on tried worth. There was a show of gratitude and
his side even more. His present pursuit could not make him forget that
and appeared to have a language of her own, she was neither understood
more characteristically, of advancement in his profession. He is an
the actual scene in which I was engaged, my spirits became unequal; I
away from the joys of life.”
horror, nor can I reflect on that terrible moment without shuddering and
obliged to leave the regiment on account of some debts of honour
“Yes, please do!” pleaded Alice.
him still more; and Elizabeth was reminded by her own satisfaction in
susceptible.
my part, Mr. Bingley, _I_ always keep servants that can do their own
As no objection was made to the young people’s engagement with their
but very bare of furniture. In one corner, near a small fire, sat an
punishment proportionate to his crimes. But I fear, from what you have
as to persuade my relatives to commence it. And then of what use would
smiles which overspread her face whenever she spoke to one of its
chose, while he continued in the neighbourhood, offering at the same
country was apparently assured, a shout of tumultuous joy broke from them,
consequence he was wounding, but was very unlikely to recommend his
not seen her for many years; but I very well remember that I never liked
“Neglect! I am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of
occurred ere they parted, which, in her anxious interpretation, denoted
their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest information of
castle and its environs, the most delightful in the world, Arthur’s
acquaintance between him and Mrs. Younge, in whose character we were
remained some time after the rest of it had gone.
During this conversation I had retired to a corner of the prison room,
partner?”
“Then who taught you? who attended to you? Without a governess, you must
than you did in your last. I thank you again and again, for not going to
to think _you_ perfect, and you set yourself against it. Do not be
“Welcome, my dearest Victor,” said he. “Ah! I wish you
appetite, which had become ravenous, with an oaten cake, when I saw a
“No, indeed, I felt nothing but surprise.”
indeed were really impossible.
it was time to be at home.
Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner smiled. Elizabeth could not help saying, “It is
expressed joy, the cause of which I did not comprehend. Presently I
pride, and confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to
eager in it, he meant to assist him in pursuing it. He added, that Mr.
“Well, all I know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do not wait
“No--why should he? If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_
us whether it is like or not.”
expression continually remind me of my dear aunt.
“Do not make yourself uneasy, my dear cousin, about your apparel. Lady
“Sir William’s interruption has made me forget what we were talking
“No, no; stay where you are. You are charmingly grouped, and appear to
among those who are accustomed to the whale-fishing. I do not intend to
a transport of fury, he dashed me to the ground and struck me violently
a risk. But against this there were objections; and she finally resolved
She died calmly, and her countenance expressed affection even in death.
Bingley’s defence of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but
Mont Salêve, the pleasant banks of Montalègre, and at a distance,
“But where were my friends and relations? No father had watched my
miserable, it was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitary being,
perhaps as this is May it won’t be raving mad—at least not so mad as it
sanguinary and merciless passions. This idea plunged me into a reverie so
“I never heard that it was.”
disappointments abroad.
ill at Netherfield?”
was. I ask only a comfortable home; and, considering Mr. Collins’s
Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
father saw this change with pleasure, and he turned his thoughts
became more and more oppressive to me, and the heat wearying me as I
uncouth and inarticulate sounds which broke from me frightened me into
which occupied them: Lady Lucas was inquiring of Maria, across the
“I like her appearance,” said Elizabeth, struck with other ideas. “She
which I am advancing, gives me a foretaste of those icy climes.
however earnest and connected. Such a monster has, then, really existence!
Mr. Bennet had very often wished, before this period of his life, that,
he could not sum up the hours and months of misery which I endured
wishes to avoid seeing _me_ he must go. We are not on friendly terms,
presented the thimble, saying “We beg your acceptance of this elegant
Alice didn’t think that proved it at all; however, she went on “And how
Lady Catherine approached, and, after listening for a few minutes, said
in prospect, more terrible to me than my own death. But you have a husband
I paused some time to reflect on all he had related and the various
to find my brother. If she had gone near the spot where his body lay,
had gained their own room, Jane, taking out her letter, said, “This is
I feel exquisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of childhood,
“Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?”
trifling service, his whole countenance is lighted up, as it were, with
I voluntarily endured cold, famine, thirst, and want of sleep; I often
restrained my uncle from undertaking a journey to Ingolstadt. I have
Mr. Collins; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed to be
Lucases. I shall not sport with your impatience by reading what he says
“How can I move thee? Will no entreaties cause thee to turn a
“Yes, that’s it,” said the Hatter with a sigh: “it’s always tea-time,
“But she must have a prize herself, you know,” said the Mouse.
judge for themselves, and the Lucases are a very good sort of girls, I
their sockets in attending to the details of my employment. The
was free last night!”
glanced at, and it is not easy to say whether she is more exquisitely
Elizabeth, that, if left wholly to himself, Jane’s happiness, and his
could fill my mind with the sights of heaven and earth; the voice of
to be felt than to be explained. Elizabeth of course belongs to the_
himself on me was a strong inducement. His revenge would have been
She was in no humour for conversation with anyone but himself; and to
“You have a house in town, I conclude?”
opportunity of enjoying herself as much as possible,--advice which there
milk, and wine; the latter, however, I did not like. Then, overcome by
The rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he would
pleasures of the morning to anybody who would hear her.
When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen,
I feared the detail to another would only impress more deeply.
1813, only four years before her death. I do not know whether, in this
“Ah,” cried Mrs. Bennet, shaking her head, “then she is better off than
on the wide ocean; yet I have found a man who, before his spirit had been
women have by education and experience, a perfect freedom from the idea
Blanc in the most beautiful figures. The storm appeared to approach
The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise and
Mr. Bingley’s will always be welcome here, to be sure; but else I must
From this day natural philosophy, and particularly chemistry, in the
in visiting an opposite milliner, watching the sentinel on guard, and
implicit confidence to all his assertions; for, as to Mr. Darcy’s using
impossible not to long to know.
subject. You may depend upon my seeking no further.”
of being crushed in their conflict. The cold is excessive, and many of
though in a voice which proved it to be Mr. Darcy, she moved again
lesson:--that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable, that one
exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. Darcy.
thought, therefore, that if in the absence of his children I could gain
which lay close to the vessel. He was soon borne away by the waves and
that Wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making
wanderer? Your summits are clear; the sky and lake are blue and
By tea-time, however, the dose had been enough, and Mr. Bennet was glad
of fancy, the streets of that gay bathing-place covered with officers.
opinion. My dearest Lizzy, do but consider in what a disgraceful light
bestowed? I know not; despair had not yet taken possession of me; my
rope—Will the roof bear?—Mind that loose slate—Oh, it’s coming down!
of the night she spent here watching; towards morning she believed that
common form of all heroines, may perhaps consist in the addition to her
it was taught to the stranger, and this opened before me a wide field
for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped out the
hastening to the same vexatious conclusion. At that instant she felt,
roused to any exertion, he speedily sinks again into apparent
any more!” And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very
the whole train of my progress toward the creation; the appearance of
and his sister pressed them to stay longer, she could spare them very
“Get well—and return to us. You will find a happy, cheerful home and
was very probable that I had beaten about for many hours and had been
most forbearing courtesy.
if I belonged to a race of human beings like myself, and I began to
likelihood of sharing, was left to the comforts of cold ham and chicken.
The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his
behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had been set up as a rival to Jane. No
they were just returned from the library, where such and such officers
spirits, there were periods of dejection. It was reasonable, however, to
more foolish than his daughter!
objected to be kept waiting for her dinner. Such formidable accounts of
pleasure; and, instantly embracing her, acknowledged, with the liveliest
from any return of Mr. Collins’s addresses, by engaging them towards
said Elizabeth; “but, without scheming to do wrong, or to make others
received at first an absolute negative. But Jane and Elizabeth, who
considered, therefore, as finally settled.” And rising as she thus
lifelessness.
grievously bruised by stones and many other kinds of missile weapons, I
reception. Mr. Darcy seemed much pleased with the attention. He answered
For the first time, also, I felt what the duties of a creator towards
towards the being to which they had given life, added to the active spirit
of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent himself. He was a tall,
disagreeable man all to yourself; but I hope you will not mind it. It is
continued to utter wild and incoherent self-reproaches. At length I
“Very much indeed,” said Alice.
often, like him, when I viewed the bliss of my protectors, the bitter
“I kept all my limbs very supple
attracted their notice as being singularly disconsolate, while the number
large in the last few minutes that she wasn’t a bit afraid of
previous months of suspense and vexation.
for several years. This has been my motive, my fair cousin, and I
pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence. At last the Dodo
afraid they might not; and we overtook William Goulding in his curricle,
to herself “It’s the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk
for her sister and resentment against all others. To Caroline’s
“Your affectionate and afflicted father,
Lydia had any partiality for him; but she was convinced that Lydia had
not seeing him there again the next day, to make his proposals.
and looking, and thinking for _your_ approbation alone. I roused and
mentioned _two_ instances. I cannot misunderstand you, but I entreat
the country and of books; and from these tastes had arisen his principal
the numerous species of this great British genus. The differences of
and my journey was retarded until the ensuing spring. I felt this
another choice? And if I am that choice, why may not I accept him?”
cannot escape the acquaintance now.”
Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best
science was chiefly founded. I was required to exchange chimeras of
Why, I do it again and again.”
Where had they fled when the next morning I awoke? All of
springs from a breach of promise, for I ought not to have mentioned the
will soon return to England.”
shuddered at the conception) the murderer of my brother? No sooner did that
scheme, of which Lydia had given them a hint at the inn, was under
_his_ pride, if he had not mortified _mine_.”
surely find other and perhaps more dreadful means of revenge. He had vowed
was brought up for the church; and I should at this time have been in
hedgehog a blow with its head, it _would_ twist itself round and look
draught and ordered us to leave him undisturbed. In the meantime he
guest, and therefore started a subject in which he expected him to
death?
mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large blue
character and ideas between us. We seem to have been designed for each
The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its
astonishment was exhibited in my countenance, for Mr. Kirwin hastened
watch to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
after their sufferings in the lake of fire. I greedily devoured the
birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very
His name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece;
on her face with a calm unconcern, which was not in the least altered by
not comprise what I have to tell you. I must confess myself
the disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal, as the case was not
knowledge, of brother, sister, and all the various relationships which
vice. Shall I, in cool blood, set loose upon the earth a dæmon whose
check that little something, bordering on conceit and impertinence,
poured from the dark sky and added to the melancholy impression I
friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to leave the
him often; and, after observing that he was a very gentlemanlike man,
was impossible not to try for information. Mr. Darcy had been at her
support. The magistrate observed me with a keen eye and of course drew
character; there is nothing marked in its lines. Her teeth are
delay our departure, fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a
to me from a man on the brink of destruction and to whom I should have
“Why will you think so? It must be his own doing; he is his own master.
“I didn’t know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn’t
Chapter 2
cast a shadow, which was felt but not seen, around the head of the
Alice.
The situation of affairs in the Longbourn family could not be long a
seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room
“I believe she did--and I am sure she could not have bestowed her
“We will go as far as Meryton with you,” said Catherine and Lydia.
beholding his master, must immediately have told it. They stood a little
relate; but his lies about the whole Pemberley family are endless. From
else, awakened a suspicion of the truth.
His tale and the feelings he now expressed proved him to be a creature
tasted an egg!”
That she should have walked three miles so early in the day in such
My first resolution was to quit Geneva for ever; my country, which, when I
They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the door; and,
inquiries. I revolved these circumstances in my mind and determined
“The country,” said Darcy, “can in general supply but few subjects for
_Hugh Thomson_
and, as with the mighty shock of an earthquake, it split and cracked with a
When that business was over, he applied to Miss Bingley and Elizabeth
forgetfulness, of which the human mind is by its structure peculiarly
genial and sunny climate, could not hope to survive. Yet at the idea
despair. Evil thenceforth became my good. Urged thus far, I had no
beheld me. My voice, although harsh, had nothing terrible in it; I
Grantley’s.”
to what she said, and placing a screen in the proper direction before
ground—and I should have croqueted the Queen’s hedgehog just now, only
thousands, for all the kindness which her beauty might otherwise have
look; for a few minutes he was silent; till, shaking off his
able to see your friends before they leave the country. But may we not
agitation, gave more important intelligence. It was to this effect:--
barbarity had desolated my heart and filled it for ever with the bitterest
well-wisher and friend,
with the ladies; and Sir William, to Elizabeth’s high diversion, was
she is saving enough. There is nothing extravagant in _their_
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a
“He must be an oddity, I think,” said she. “I cannot make him out. There
protested that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery
for. It is, I believe, too little yielding; certainly too little for the
preserve my life; to execute this dear revenge will I again behold the sun
treated you too. And then when we came away it was such fun! I thought
his regimentals.”
mistaken. On applying to see the place, they were admitted into the
me, I did not once put my foot out of doors, though I was there a
north at the expiration of another month. In this expedition we did not
Elizabeth, by bringing forward the idea of a man to whom she believed
the day with them. She was met in the vestibule by Lydia, who, flying to
lovely as ever. On the stairs were a troop of little boys and girls,
“You are a good girl,” he replied, “and I have great pleasure in
impatience for his arrival, or even require Jane to confess that if he
trembling voice, “Let us get to the shore, and then I’ll tell you my
dressed; and these signs of comfort increased daily as the season
Wickham only shook his head.
information, he was the person to whom the whole family were indebted
neighbourhood, nor to his leaving his parish occasionally for a week or
With this answer Elizabeth was forced to be content; but her own opinion
of his designing friends, and led him to sacrifice his own happiness to
had pleasure in their society, a persuasion which of course recommended
Frenchman, except the late M. de Maupassant, and watch him laboriously
wild and rocky appearance, but as I approached nearer I easily perceived
new instrument just come down for her--a present from my master: she
features, which might once have been handsome. Her air was not
dare.”
tone, only changing the order of the words a little, “From the Queen.
of bidding her adieu, wishing her every enjoyment, reminding her of what
his pocket; “but perhaps you would like to read it.”
silence; on each side dissatisfied, though not to an equal degree; for
“That is a question which I hardly know how to answer. We all love to
interest all her tender feelings; and nothing therefore remained to be
As I said this I suddenly beheld the figure of a man, at some distance,
it was to love. Of the lady’s sensations they remained a little in
The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. Bennet’s ill humour or ill
“Have you guessed the riddle yet?” the Hatter said, turning to Alice
participate in these feelings, for to me the walls of a dungeon or a
and Mr. Collins begins to say that he will not have Lizzy.”
These feelings dictated my answer to my father. I expressed a wish to
The night passed away, and the sun rose from the ocean; my feelings became
ten minutes together without opening his lips; and when he did speak, it
They came. The family were assembled in the breakfast-room to receive
Explanation! You may possibly say, What can Elizabeth have to explain? If
feelings of indignation, delight, and wonder, but which all terminated
you will meet with their detestation; your evil passions will be renewed,
no great inclination for talking. Nobody can tell what I suffer! But it
arrived in a few days at Rotterdam, whence we proceeded by sea to England.
him.”
Meryton, thought she might as well call on you. I suppose she had
Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had
Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since _her_ coming away.
Collins, much offended, laid aside his book, and said,--
emulation for virtue. The prospect of marrying a Christian and
that the friend who is supposed to desire his return to the house, and
from you. Hear my tale; it is long and strange, and the temperature of
“It matters a good deal to _me_,” said Alice hastily; “but I’m not
the earth! How funny it’ll seem to come out among the people that walk
banish disease from the human frame and render man invulnerable to any but
the seal to my fate.
I have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of
much?” said her aunt. “A place, too, with which so many of your
as witnesses, I accompanied them to the court. During the whole of
CHAPTER III.
panic on seeing the pale yellow light of the moon illuminate the chamber.
this happy event, let me now add a short hint on the subject of another,
I started forward and exclaimed, “Villain! Before you sign my
shall never make me base in my own eyes. Shall I create another like
society, and from our connection with Rosings, the frequent means of
him _conditionally_ only.”
gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about
bestow a more plentiful harvest or the vines yield a more luxuriant
Charlotte said,--
I remembered only, and it was with a bitter anguish that I reflected on
But her conclusion was false; for on the very morning after their own
But I was doomed to live and in two months found myself as awaking from
as these; but I think I may defy even _your_ sagacity to discover the
but allow that Mr. Bingley, when questioned by Jane, had long ago
down on one knee as he spoke, “we were trying—”
An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all gone to bed,
recollections obtruded, and she fancied that praise of Pemberley from
Sir William stayed only a week at Hunsford; but his visit was long
earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis—”
performed in a proper manner, without any of those apologies and thanks
sake of discovering them.”
This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by
without saying much to anybody, went away.
She is on her road somewhere, I dare say; and so, passing through
Maria; and as Elizabeth saw no occasion for making it a general concern,
Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection,
as it sank and then sailed away from the spot. The sky became clouded, but
misery and terror to you the day after our marriage shall take place,
would have laughed yourself out of it sooner. But do you think she would
*      *      *      *      *      *      *
This state of mind preyed upon my health, which had perhaps never
time much better. No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can
which the murder had been committed and towards morning had been
not very differently engaged.
that her husband would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for his
For this must ever be
infallibly arrive at great proficiency in that study; and I, who
enough to make one good sort of man; and of late it has been shifting
possible. She was more alive to the disgrace, which her want of new
give them any uneasiness, convinced her that she had somehow or other
Mr. Bingley, and under your orders.”
determined to inquire at all the principal hotels in town, as Mr. Bennet
despising his fellow-creatures in general, but did not suspect him of
“It’s a Cheshire cat,” said the Duchess, “and that’s why. Pig!”
Elizabeth, till, catching her eye, he withdrew his own, and coldly said,
and Jane seem so well to understand?”
give in the other? He declared himself to have been totally unsuspicious
their hands to direct to happiness or misery, according as they fulfilled
Elizabeth herself.
Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland
When happy, inanimate nature had the power of bestowing on me the most
[Illustration: “I’m the tallest”]
gallery. Mrs. Reynolds informed them, that it had been taken in his
foreign accent. “Before I come on board your vessel,” said he,
twelvemonth. Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance. If
What is it you fear?”
called, did you look as if you did not care about me?”
The discussion of Mr. Collins’s offer was now nearly at an end, and
town where she had formerly passed some years of her life, and where
with a Preface by
of the day had produced. Night was far advanced when I came to the
he hastened to the house, which was situated in a mean street near the
in your name throughout the whole of this business, I will
she went through them, and what a contrariety of emotion they excited.
day.”
“No, I should have turned in a moment.”
“Then it is as I always hoped,” cried Jane: “they are married!”
studied every sentence; and her feelings towards its writer were at
girls, and not at all handsome: I like them prodigiously.”
them bitter—and—and barley-sugar and such things that make children
valued beyond that of any other person. Elizabeth would wonder, and
friend, had any intention of making one in the crowd, but of that I
beholding thy streams, thy mountains, and, more than all, thy lovely
CHAPTER XV.
without actual blame on either side.”
talent and fancy. He loved enterprise, hardship, and even danger for
conversation, though it was only on its being a wet night, and on the
were called forth and displayed. But in giving an account of the
stirred the fire), when Mr. Darcy “brought his coffee-cup back_
delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual good spirits. Mr.
Mr. Darcy took her advice, and did finish his letter.
thimble;” and, when it had finished this short speech, they all
thoughts and neither saw the descent of the evening star nor the golden
“All this she must possess,” added Darcy; “and to all she must yet add
plan, and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater
“I should take him, even on _my_ slight acquaintance, to be an
with this deadly weight yet hanging round my neck and bowing me to the
“Hush! Hush!” said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone. He looked
not disagreeable; Wickham what he is, without investing him either with
Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their journey;
difficult in any space, and impossible in this. Mrs. Bennet we have
paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary.
[Illustration]
they enjoyed one another’s company and speech, interchanging each day
favourite was menaced, she could no longer control her anxiety. She
Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than
[Illustration:
region of beauty and delight. There, Margaret, the sun is for ever
again if you do _not_ marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you again
I listened to my father in silence and remained for some time incapable
Bingley. It was an animating subject, and Mrs. Bennet seemed incapable
about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can’t
be spared to discover the villain.”
“_I_ see!” said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses.
benevolent man with calm and mild manners. He looked upon me, however,
use to me in my present undertaking. The latter method of obtaining
interrupted, she sat down on one of the benches, and prepared to be
place or other, and we can never expect her to do it with so little
name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.
“And what did she say?”
company, for she had by no means given up her plan of their residing in
“There are very few people of whom so much can be said. You are lucky in
gave tokens of their miserable fare. Vegetables and bread, when they
its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did
While my companion contemplated with a serious and satisfied spirit the
laughingly answered,--
supposed her guilty rendered them timorous and unwilling to come
companions all the way to Longbourn. Elizabeth listened as little as she
were the first points of self-gratulation; and then it was such a
to him; and as I could easily perceive that his attachment to her was
avidity.
adventurous exploit, had she not unfolded to him the real loveliness of
heart, but I no longer talked in the same incoherent manner of my own
where is your sash, my dear?”
never again distressed himself, or provoked his dear sister Elizabeth,
in such narrow space as is permitted to me, I propose here to show
offers, which were last night so disgusting to you. I write without any
“I have, sir.”
Collins, the visit to Hunsford, the Derbyshire tour--fit in after the
woeful as the “Ancient Mariner.” You will smile at my allusion, but I
It was so long since she had been anything near the right size, that it
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
inglorious career, he turned his eyes toward the East, as affording
contempt and ridicule.”
spirits; and, having told all her griefs to Charlotte Lucas, whom she
scream. It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired. As I
when Kitty left them she went boldly on with him alone. Now was the
CHAPTER VII.
called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was,
Who dared talk of that? The poor victim, who on the morrow was to pass
should be united to his deliverer; and Felix remained with them in
taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say
Hurst had, therefore, nothing to do but to stretch himself on one of the
reproof contained in his believing, that however long, and for whatever
necessary to clear his expenses at Brighton. He owed a good deal in the
not intercept the view I had of the dæmon; but still my sight was
different from the manly and heroical poetry of Greece and Rome!
Catherine and Lydia, were particularly frequent in these attentions:
explanation, and at others he appeared to consider it as the offspring of
elevating, to a degree I never experienced in studying the authors of
[Illustration]
the other side of the garden, where Alice could see it trying in a
the science not to derange their mechanism. He also gave me the list of
And concluded the banquet—]
followed her into the dining-parlour. It was a large, well-proportioned
dark. There is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every
request!”
first introduction. He was too happy, however, to need much attention;
ardent desire of my soul.
care will ever cloud his benevolent countenance. How pleased you would
[Illustration]
about.
me as its creator and source; many happy and excellent natures would
consent from me. You may render me the most miserable of men, but you
added,--
another flash discovered him to me hanging among the rocks of the nearly
“M^{rs}. Long and her nieces.”
It was not known that Wickham had a single relation with whom he kept up
prejudice, to which he attributed her excessive commendation of her
imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love
room. He assured her that, as to dancing, he was perfectly indifferent
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!”
otherwise than by netting a purse or covering a screen; but I am very
may be called, were fixed on me. His jaws opened, and he muttered some
“With great energy; but it is a subject which always makes a lady
not going to do _that_ in a hurry. “No, I’ll look first,” she said,
in the world am I? Ah, _that’s_ the great puzzle!” And she began
shortened by the late setting and early rising of the sun, for I never
She had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the country. It
“Lady Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make her happy,
Lady Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on
me to present this young lady to you as a very desirable partner. You
“You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my nephew!
his burden, and taking some of the fuel into the cottage, placed it on
liable to error. I have certainly meant well through the whole affair.
“but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only. Mr.
ourselves intentionally injured. We must not expect a lively young man
shall repose in peace. I understand your feeling,” continued he,
good sir? You had better neglect your relations than run the risk of
benevolent of human creatures. She nursed Madame Frankenstein, my aunt, in
deficient; but Darcy was clever. He was at the same time haughty,
beds, allow me this faint happiness, or take me, as your companion,
orbs nearly covered by the lids and the long black lashes that fringed
“It was about seven in the morning, and I longed to obtain food and
“but it doesn’t matter a bit,” she thought to herself.
His attachment excited gratitude, his general character respect: but she
spirits that preside over thee, to pursue the dæmon who caused this misery,
“We will be down as soon as we can,” said Jane; “but I dare say Kitty is
dinner. When the engagement was for home, some of the officers always
laboratory for several days, and at other times I toiled day and night
in acknowledgment of all I
There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, “I
or rather the vast river of ice, wound among its dependent mountains,
irksome to me, I continued my route. The sledge was still visible, nor
Perhaps I am not doing her justice. But she is very young: she has never
Longbourn; and the conclusion of all was the comfortable declaration,
day before, not many hours after the express. Though Lydia’s short
invoked to aid me. Often, when all was dry, the heavens cloudless, and
forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the
as it should be, the climax of the interest of the book), and in the
after they are married. And, above all things, keep Mr. Bennet from
friend within a few days,” she added, “I shall know how to understand
“Very well, and very happy, only a little uneasy that they hear from
family, in your present distress, which must be of the bitterest
examined the materials of the fire, and to my joy found it to be
Yet, as I drew nearer home, grief and fear again overcame me. Night also
giving you certain information on that head than myself--for I have been
so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her
her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go
a divine spring, and the season contributed greatly to my
as it lasted.)
down stairs herself. On entering the drawing-room, she found the whole
destiny, she was melancholy, and a presentiment of evil pervaded her;
with regard to Lady Catherine’s family is, indeed, the sort of
much less in his own apartment had they sat in one equally lively; and
smiles, for you are wasting your time with me.”
beauty of the scene, sometimes on one side of the lake, where we saw
I could not refuse.
setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise and recommence a new
the newspapers, at the end of trials, “There was some attempts at
any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this
thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt, than to run such
for his own, and we must expect him to keep or quit it on the same
“It is a circumstance which Darcy of course could not wish to be
“Mrs. Annesley is with her. The others have been gone on to Scarborough
number of executions the Queen had ordered.
come there in the evening. For the last week they had seen very little
affectionately taking her hand, said, in reply,--
scenes familiar to my youth, but which I had not seen for nearly six years.
on the great ocean; and the waves dash with fury the base of the mountain,
of fourteen who wishes to marry Mr. Shapely, and assures her selected
touched her shoes; but I think she would have made a pretty good journey
opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet!”
beginning of my misfortunes, I had conceived a violent antipathy even
being drowned in my own tears! That _will_ be a queer thing, to be
“Oh, she is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld! But there is one
Justine shook her head mournfully. “I do not fear to die,” she said;
questions on his return, as required some ingenuity to evade, and he was
when I am only induced by reason and virtue.
During our walk, Clerval endeavoured to say a few words of consolation;
she was talking. “How _can_ I have done that?” she thought. “I must be
“She is a most charming young lady, indeed. Lady Catherine herself says
[Illustration:
CHAPTER V.
delighted. The rain continued the whole evening without intermission;
were, instinctively, finding myself so desolate. Before I had quitted
London road. I know not what to think. After making every possible
not land at the harbour, but, as they had been accustomed, at a creek about
important to say!”
were indebted to Mr. Collins for the knowledge of what carriages went
came to the university with the design of making himself complete
“But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, I am sure. They are
Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter,
conversation that I had with my uncle previous to his departure renders
contemplated with suspicion. But I enjoyed friends, dear not only
that his manners are thus softened. My reproofs at Hunsford could not
“You’ll see me there,” said the Cat, and vanished.
that the Queen was close behind her, listening: so she went on,
[Illustration]
thinking you will be so happily settled. I have not a doubt of your
knew that I _had_ begun.”
“As I did the other day,” said Elizabeth, with a conscious smile; “very
Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva. He was a boy of singular
“Can you deny that you have done it?” she repeated.
When I was about fifteen years old we had retired to our house near
and selfishness in evil; he destroyed my friends; he devoted to destruction
and vivid. I try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of
disapprove of you. And you may be certain that when I have the honour of
the price, perhaps, of the existence of the whole human race.
father’s, but it was agreed that Elizabeth and I should commence our
prevent its ever happening again, took care to inform him, at first,
enough happened in the time. Good gracious! when I went away, I am sure
enjoyment like reading! How much sooner one tires of anything than of a
I ought, what I dared to do! But I knew not--I was afraid of doing too
“And till Colonel Forster came himself, not one of you entertained a
which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the
Lucas.
she chosen it, she might by this time have been presented to her as her
fields.
On the very last day of the regiment’s remaining in Meryton, he dined,
me and the intrusion of my foe. If I were alone, would he not at times
of what he had done with respect to Jane, his unpardonable assurance in
the mainland, which was about five miles distant.
whether I quit for ever the neighbourhood of man and lead a harmless
Natural philosophy is the genius that has regulated my fate; I desire,
she soon grew too much interested in the game, too eager in making bets
(she knew) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard—while the
Here they were interrupted by Lady Catherine, who called out to know
she spoke, an involuntary glance showed her Darcy with a heightened
faculties--would be an infinitely better thing than a faultless plot
my convalescence had commenced, and proceeded regularly. In another
the wretch whom with such infinite pains and care I had endeavoured to
“May it please your Majesty,” said Two, in a very humble tone, going
pretend to enter into the merits of the case, yet I inclined towards
acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as herself. Since her
“While I was overcome by these feelings, I left the spot where I had
“Now, dear Victor, I dare say you wish to be indulged in a little
designs on Miss Darcy, received some confirmation from what had passed
that knew no bounds, yet I could never persuade myself to confide in
he is at rest. The pang is over, his sufferings are at an end for ever.
entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet, for the advantage of
which almost overcame her affection, she now saw the object of open
accusation, of having injured Mr. Wickham, I can only refute it by
And have grown most uncommonly fat;
courtesied to him, without saying a word.
Elizabeth made no objection: the door was then allowed to be shut, and
doubtless, excited your curiosity, as well as that of these good
dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain knowledge, more
had received his commission before he left London, and he was to join
daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second
Sir William did not say much. He was storing his memory with anecdotes
of the same nature as man. I was more agile than they and could
While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
mean an allusion to what might arise in that quarter. It distressed her
“Ay, that is just like your formality and discretion. You thought the
ultimately succeed. I prepared myself for a multitude of reverses; my
of them. But Elizabeth had sources of uneasiness which could not yet be
with him. For my own part, I begin to love him as a brother, and his
time. I am perfectly serious in my refusal. You could not make _me_
years I made some discoveries in the improvement of some chemical
Bennet with a degree of civility which made her two daughters ashamed,
Miss Bennet still looked all amazement. Elizabeth again, and more
particularly begged him to do. He merely added, that he should not write
She then read the first sentence aloud, which comprised the information
received pleasure from the society of a man in any other colour. As for
“He must have imitated somebody else’s hand,” said the King. (The jury
And then I thought again of his words—“_I will be with you on
joy for a few instants shone in her eyes, but it continually gave place
she had heard, and doubting whether she was authorized to mention it,
The voyage came to an end. We landed, and proceeded to Paris. I soon
unstained snowy mountain-top, the glittering pinnacle, the pine woods,
“I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth,” said her uncle, as they
received an invitation from Mrs. Forster, the wife of the colonel of the
to her, I shall charge her not to neglect it on any account. I often
amused with her own book, which she had only chosen because it was the
everything is on a lower scale, and the green hills want the crown of
sea. The master was an old Turtle—we used to call him Tortoise—”
Her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach
the connection. He had, to be sure, done much. She was ashamed to think
“Can I have the carriage?” said Jane.
ready to take them all home.
Chapter 3
feeling of happiness. We passed rapidly along; the sun was hot, but we
turns. The vegetables in the gardens, the milk and cheese that I saw
every moment more valuable.
did I again lose sight of it except at the moments when for a short
a misfortune to be liked by him. Mrs. Long told me last night that he
things I read surpassed my understanding and experience. I had a very
“I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and
subject.
sought one who would sympathise with and love me. Behold, on these desert
renewed violence, charging her with the blackest ingratitude. She
a mile from Meryton, denominated from that period Lucas Lodge; where he
make after all their Hertfordshire friends. Elizabeth, construing all
combined with disdain and malignity, while its unearthly ugliness
them.
pride and obsequiousness, self-importance and humility.
pursuing his way towards a small wood on one side of the paddock.
gave way only to the greater distress of Mr. Bingley’s continued
suddenly addressed her with,--
They were all astonished; and Mr. Bennet, who could by no means wish for
some great enterprise. My feelings are profound, but I possessed a coolness
Doth walk in fear and dread,
richly furnished,” said she, “I should not care about it myself; but the
“Alas! Yes; I cannot withstand their demands. I cannot lead them
“You may go,” said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court,
were the contents:--
entirely extinct. At length he opened his eyes; he breathed with
pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley to-day.”
on my relatives. This idea pursued me and tormented me at every moment
This was not very consoling to Mrs. Bennet; and, therefore, instead of
saw a boat, with a single man in it, at a short distance from the shore;
thenceforth to apply myself more particularly to those branches of
on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she
she urged Jane to borrow Mr. Bingley’s carriage immediately, and at
meanwhile may lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most
attachment had for a moment excited.
Netherfield for? Was it merely to ride to Longbourn and be embarrassed?
account trifle with her affectionate solicitude, or allow her to hear it
“You ought to have finished,” said the King. “When did you begin?”
my cousin Elizabeth.”
reflect upon what had passed with greater composure; yet still the
necessary. I hope you have destroyed the letter. There was one part,
fatally this one circumstance weighs against me, but I have no power of
Let the other young ladies have time to exhibit.”
“Why do you call to my remembrance,” I rejoined, “circumstances of
manner,--one whom his father had promised to provide for. It is
thousand pounds; but I cannot help supposing that the hope of revenging
impressed themselves on my mind and I remembered them afterwards in
no business of _mine_.”
all my life!”
party at loo, and was immediately invited to join them; but suspecting
me. As I turned the promontory I perceived a small neat town and a good
dated at Paris; you are no longer at a formidable distance, and I may
Fitzwilliam’s occasionally laughing at his stupidity proved that he was
Her mild eyes seemed incapable of any severity or guile, and yet she has
must enter the room which had been the scene of my odious work, and I must
Darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happiness necessarily
succeeded no less in the real object of her civility: Mr. Darcy looked
[Illustration:
if it began ordering people about like that!”
the way home; but there was not time for her even to mention his name as
all have a bowl of punch to make merry at her wedding.”
uniformly betrayed by herself, by your three younger sisters, and
varying the humble home scene, I think we may flatter ourselves that
persuaded, would avoid her as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this
Elizabeth could not help observing, as she turned over some music-books
a churchyard was to me merely the receptacle of bodies deprived of
“Certainly not.”
and you are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was
Miss Lucas and herself.
“promised impossibilities and performed nothing. The modern masters
scarcely dared lift her eyes to his face, and knew not what answer she
Bingley was ready, Georgiana was eager, and Darcy determined, to be
application and was more deeply smitten with the thirst for knowledge.
Thus not the tenderness of friendship, nor the beauty of earth, nor of
eternal justice of man! Yet I ask you not to spare me; listen to me,
country, because her sister had a cold? Her hair so untidy, so blowzy!”
moment for her resolution to be executed; and while her courage was
_That_ is all settled.”
marked how well she was satisfied with the occurrences of the evening.
during the rest of the night, walking up and down in the greatest
thousand pictures of presenting myself to them, and their reception of
same. Lydia’s going to Brighton was all that consoled her for the
with disgust from him to the superior beauty of man; she might quit him,
remember his boasting one day, at Netherfield, of the implacability of
brother for talking such nonsense.
mountains that in vain endeavour to emulate her; sometimes coasting the
information of so satisfactory a nature as the compliment deserved.
interruption, and promised that it should not occur again, if he would
she made some slight observation on the dance. He replied, and was again
hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one,
This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept shifting
trace by which I could send to your relations an account of your misfortune
others, and she had no opportunity of detaining them.
playfulness, her wit, her affectionate and natural disposition, of a
Bingley was uncivil to _her_ and more teasing than usual to himself. He
As soon as they were gone, Elizabeth walked out to recover her spirits;
[Illustration]
was condemned.
more.” Then addressing her daughter, “Oh, my dear, dear Jane, I am so
more, the very remembrance of us both will speedily vanish. I shall no
determined heart and resolved will of man?
the earth than have consented to this miserable marriage. But, as if
“My dear madam,” he replied, “this invitation is particularly
an impediment, and truly I rejoiced that thus I should be saved many
watch the blossom or the expanding leaves—sights which before always
into which these reflections threw me made my friends dread a dangerous
marked the smoke of its passage. Mont Blanc, the supreme and
be decided whether the result of my curiosity and lawless devices would
number of the hackney coach which took them from Clapham. It had come
marriage was now fast approaching; and she was at length so far resigned
unexpected; I had not an idea of it.”
my enemy is not invulnerable; this death will carry despair to him, and
but it said nothing.
something in an opposite shop, and fortunately had just gained the
was not the witness of his grief, for I was lifeless and did not
found to be intolerable, and the younger sisters not worth speaking to,
their deserts; but with _him_ I believe it does not often happen. The
occasional appearance of some trout in the water, and talking to the man
one which could not fail to impress itself deeply on my mind, unfolding
Inspirited by this wind of promise, my daydreams become more fervent
should die--it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of
my adversary. But I discovered no trace of him and was beginning to
noise going on within—a constant howling and sneezing, and every now
again, till he had something of importance to mention.”
“It isn’t,” said the Caterpillar.
Mr. Philips’s house, and then made their bows, in spite of Miss Lydia’s
angelic nature and celestial mechanism. But I felt that I had no right
seen riding down the street. On distinguishing the ladies of the group
name to her mother on her Ladyship’s entrance, though no request of
“Yes; and they have another, who lives somewhere near Cheapside.”
Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it; but, as
occasional exclamation of “Hjckrrh!” from the Gryphon, and the constant
years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge. By this time she is
himself were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas, whose
sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew _that_: then they wouldn’t be
He had escaped me, and I must commence a destructive and almost endless
overlooked on your side, and not lead you to reject the offered
indulged in such luxuries, and even fresh water, was to be procured from
was exactly what Darcy had hoped to see. They were able to love each
His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]
Albertus Magnus, and Paracelsus, the lords of my imagination; but by
saying something that might turn her mother’s thoughts, now asked her if
“Devil, cease; and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice.
and had sent for him only the Saturday before, to make up her pool of
place?”
But you do not know _all_. I _will_ read you the passage which
Hurst had a house. The next was in these words:--“‘I do not pretend to
“And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike
relief to my own feelings care not how much I may be wounding yours. I
]
believed that she and her cousin will unite the two estates.”
of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine.”
two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for Mr. Darcy had brought
“I never said I didn’t!” interrupted Alice.
of course familiar with--‘Keep your breath to cool your porridge,’--and
As time passed away I became more calm; misery had her dwelling in my
“Well, it must be removed,” said the King very decidedly, and he called
everything, rather than his disappointing the hopes and disgracing the
know, when they were together; and a good deal is to be imputed to his
“But does Lydia know nothing of this? can she be ignorant of what you
hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually talked of. My mother means well;
let us rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart. His choice is
lest she might hear too much. When they sat down to supper, therefore,
“Some acquaintance or other, my dear, I suppose; I am sure I do not
to dine at Rosings the next day.
snappishly. “You’re enough to try the patience of an oyster!”
I. had collected his forces. This city had remained faithful to him,
nearly frozen, and his body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and
before he had, with very monotonous solemnity, read three pages, she
remember it myself.”
have always supposed it to be my own fault--because I would not take
for _another interest_ in the affair. When all this was resolved
bed-chamber, unable to compose my mind to sleep. At length lassitude
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very
During dinner, Mr. Bennet scarcely spoke at all; but when the servants
pleasures and seem to be returning to yourself. And yet you are still
did not doubt that, instead of doing harm, he performed the kindest
before sorrowful, now swelled with something like joy; I exclaimed,
their shrieks and misery.
inquiries as to the time of her having left Longbourn, and of her stay
“That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat.
those points where he most wants care. From something that he told me
the morning, just time to begin lessons: you’d only have to whisper a
sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came
to lose, but seizing the hand of the old man, I cried, ‘Now is the
hear regularly from you. You must pardon me if I regard any
nothing to guide us. Colonel Forster will, I dare say, do everything in
“Unable to utter a syllable”                                         457
to keep herself from being run over; and the moment she appeared on the
not depend on her serving you.”
END
Every object in the next day’s journey was new and interesting to
habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had taken him
for her soon sunk into indifference: hers lasted a little longer; and,
repentance. She sometimes begged Justine to forgive her unkindness,
Mr. Darcy, that she would not trust herself with an answer; and,
“How fond she is of finding morals in things!” Alice thought to
lasting convenience of that kind. But, perhaps, his sister does as well
they were now to spend a few days, was probably as great an object of
intimate, confidential friend. Mr. Darcy often acknowledged himself to
CHAPTER XXXII.
manner, and we walked towards my college. Clerval continued talking for
being in love with each other many weeks.”
“On the Stairs”
she had chosen.
exerted himself to amuse me, while he expressed the sensations that filled
at the same time exercising great self-denial, for he was longing to
connected with the family.” And with a bow to Mr. Darcy, he concluded
fast from between his fingers; a groan burst from his heaving breast. I
omitted.
Mrs. Philips’s supper party, but his manners recommended him to
ungracious and reluctant good wishes, and sincerely affected herself,
They crossed it by a simple bridge, in character with the general air of
“We have heard only once. He wrote me a few lines on Wednesday, to say
extensive patronage. Yet, in spite of all these temptations, let me warn
keel cut through the waves; the murmur lulled me, and in a short time I
“If your master would marry, you might see more of him.”
Elizabeth, the conversation was carried on. Miss Darcy looked as if she
most comprehensive sense of the term, became nearly my sole occupation.
Heading to Chapter IV.                                                18
pressing entreaties that they would come in, and even in spite of Mrs.
“I shall depend on hearing from you very often, Eliza.”
“That is very true,” said Elizabeth; “though it had not occurred to me
Their reception at home was most kind. Mrs. Bennet rejoiced to see Jane
if she suspects the nature of my feelings for him she means (most
thankful. That they should marry, small as is their chance of happiness,
such sweet complacency, a glow of such happy expression, as sufficiently
Mrs. Bennet was not so well pleased with it. Lydia’s being settled in
George Saintsbury
exactly in unison with her opinion of each.
She had instinctively turned away; but stopping on his approach,
then said,--
you and your eldest sister than it is honourable to the sense and
Jane Austen’s genius there was, though nothing mannish, much that was
This advice, although good, was totally inapplicable to my case; I
to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the
under-mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted myself to admiration. I
humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an
her to quit her present disgraceful situation, and return to her
Rosings.
the trouble of practising. It is not that I do not believe _my_ fingers
door, staring stupidly up into the sky.
“By-the-bye, what became of the baby?” said the Cat. “I’d nearly
of the first. Their other engagements were few, as the style of living
CHORUS.
father, who came out of his library with a letter in his hand.
And when her sisters abused it as ugly, she added, with perfect
with his conduct. She remembered that he had boasted of having no fear
smiled, looked handsome, and said many pretty things.
you, I feel it exceedingly,” said Lady Catherine; “I believe nobody
little paths of the mountain and fixing my feet firmly as I advanced
for she loves to be of use. But tell me, what did you come down to
for so long a journey, and how wretched my sickness would make
“But I don’t want to go among mad people,” Alice remarked.
by introducing the subject of it; and she was pleased to find that she
direct position, stretched myself at the bottom of the boat. Clouds hid the
could not err; and he had spoken in such terms of Elizabeth, as to leave
“The days now passed as peaceably as before, with the sole alteration
know that what I have to relate will give such pleasure to all my dear
somebody.”
straw at the farther end; her hands were manacled, and her head rested on
of my family I should not have merely my own gratitude to express.”
where I could most easily procure nourishment. Fortunately I had money with
possibility, refuse this demand? I hesitated before I answered, when
sullen in my study, rough through the ardour of my nature, but that
other, and not disturb us with his company. What shall we do with him?
Lucases, his arrival was no great inconvenience to Mrs. Bennet. His
cannot live in this world of misery.”
was less captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliam’s manners, she
did there, but she looked very strangely and only returned a confused
Elizabeth was pleased to find his memory so exact; and he afterwards
settled the whole. They battled it together for a long time, which
anything so wholly unreasonable. Your Ladyship wants Mr. Darcy to marry
an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a
promise for some time, and I feared the effects of the dæmon’s
err. You must write again very soon, and praise him a great deal more
future niece; nor could she think, without a smile, of what her
“Well, mamma,” said she, when they were all returned to the
was of an age to hold it, and that it was given to another man; and no
who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some
own strength is exhausted, and I must tell, in a few words, what remains of
appeared; but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself
cast her eyes round the room in quest of some amusement; when, hearing
walked up and down my room hastily and perturbed, while my imagination
which, though still existing, and existing to an equal degree in both
continue the subject.
shrug his shoulders, it was not till Sir William was out of sight.
value and lose him. I would reconcile him to life, but he repulses the idea.
“How do you know I’m mad?” said Alice.
Derbyshire; and their intimate friends who live in Hertfordshire are not
charge, several witnesses were called. Several strange facts combined
Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out
the other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until
replied, however, that we were on a voyage of discovery towards the
pleasantry. Her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in
in cutting off the entail, as soon as he should be of age, and the widow
them, but so it is. It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted
readiness at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the
of moderation. I would have made a pilgrimage to the highest peak of the
He then told her of Georgiana’s delight in her acquaintance, and of her
the flight of an eagle, and quickly lost among the undulations of the
evenings in this manner,--in such society; and, indeed, I am quite of
additional motive for you, my son, to return and be our comforter?
which her rank will inevitably excite. Thus much for my general
unremitting attentions of my friend could have restored me to life.
reflection, by everything. But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence.
happiness: they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence; they
_one_ with such a neck as that! No, no! You’re a serpent; and there’s
were anyone that one could apply to, with a probability of gaining such
melancholy conviction of her husband’s never intending to go there
laborious voyage with the joy a child feels when he embarks in a little
At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them,
government. A small possession on the shores of Como belonged to her. It
the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy schemes which the
some of your lovers? Poor little Lizzy! But do not be cast down. Such
intention of my fiendish adversary, I would rather have banished myself
“I beg you will not put it into Lizzy’s head to be vexed by his
to make it impossible for any young woman of character to love or
half-extinguished light, I saw the dull yellow eye of the creature
[Illustration]
their mouths—and they’re all over crumbs.”
“But can you think that Lydia is so lost to everything but love of him,
and, at length, by repeated assurances that Mr. Darcy was really the
“No, she would go home. I fancy she was wanted about the mince-pies. For
‘By your language, stranger, I suppose you are my countryman; are you
which we have been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely
and immaculate beings! I, the miserable and the abandoned, am an
All Meryton seemed striving to blacken the man who, but three months
How can I describe my emotions at this catastrophe, or how delineate
required hill and mountain and ballad, even Coleridge metaphysics and
trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was
connected with his family, in a particular manner, from my infancy.”
“We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that
CHAPTER XXVII.
on him. But, however, that shan’t prevent my asking him to dine here, I
When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having
“I have no right to give _my_ opinion,” said Wickham, “as to his being
She began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man who, in
out that I hate her at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to think
warmth I experienced from it. In my joy I thrust my hand into the live
Elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her. “It keeps him in good
every feature and gesture seemed instigated by the wildest rage of some
stirring a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup.
“Go, my dear,” cried her mother, “and show her Ladyship about the
developing these agreeable characteristics which seldom present
consciousness of which haunted me. I was guiltless, but I had indeed
“I don’t see any wine,” she remarked.
pour a torrent of light into our dark world. A new species would bless
myself by the fire which my odious companion had lighted, he thus began
epithet.
Chapter 22
heart-sickening despair that I then endured. The person to whom I
“But, my dear Elizabeth,” she added, “what sort of girl is Miss King? I
found murdered here last night.”
from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in his
reflect that a voluntary act of mine could avert it. I had resolved in
taste or judgment. Miss Austen, too, drew back when the white frost
alarm or inconvenience, from expressing in her note how much she longed
“Yes, or I will never see her again.”
hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all
the enjoyment of pleasure.
“What a curious plan!” exclaimed Alice.
Elizabeth opened the letter, and to her still increasing wonder,
Elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in
I am sincerely grieved for him and Mrs. F.; but no one can throw any
towards the gate. He had by that time reached it also; and, holding out
Darcy’s, in crayons, whose subjects were usually more interesting, and
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while
the power of his eloquence; when he speaks, they no longer despair; he
be. The world has been deceived in that respect; and I am happy to
argument of its impracticability. It was with these feelings that I
which he never failed coming to inform them of, though it happened
us all about it!”
spoke, his accent had none of its usual sedateness; and he repeated his
attention. His acquaintance with Elizabeth was very trifling.”
expressing yourself.”
“I am afraid I interrupt your solitary ramble, my dear sister?” said he,
her sister; for since her marriage would so shortly give the proper
again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible. The comfort to
Charlotte, really rejoicing in the match, was anxious to get away till
reference to _you_, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me.”
“for I can’t understand it myself to begin with; and being so many
expectation of that event; and in the meantime he enjoyed the society
for, my sweet cousin, there must be perfect confidence between us. But
shall make no demand of that nature on your father, since I am well
“Piling up the fire”
all Miss Bingley’s witticisms on _fine eyes_.
she turned up the lane which led her farther from the turnpike road. The
“Upon my word, sir,” cried Elizabeth, “your hope is rather an
“Well,” cried Elizabeth, “have it as you choose. _He_ shall be
progress. It advanced; the heavens were clouded, and I soon felt the rain
hope to see you in less than a fortnight. My poor cousin, how much you
then hanging in the stars and ready to envelop me. Her victory was
Lizzy, if I take this opportunity of saying (what I was never bold
and, to the great surprise of all the party, when Mr. Collins returned,
sleep; but the fever of my blood did not allow me to be visited by
Yesterday the stranger said to me, “You may easily perceive, Captain
his life.”
finished, that he might receive his companion.
love and kindness.
bloomed in the hedges, while those of summer were already in bud. I
And, having once turned round, walks on,
midnight, and the traveller might have arrived at a place of safety
Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. Bennet got
Elizabeth privately added, “And how much I shall have to conceal!”
doubtful, so indefinite, that it gives me very little idea. It is as
would be fixed that was to make him the happiest of men. He took leave
unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his
I passed an hour in this state of mind, when suddenly I reflected how
other, they seemed to draw inexhaustible stores of affection from a very
subsisted between Mr. Darcy and herself.
“I have been making the tour of the park,” he replied, “as I generally
spirit and flow as to draw the attention of Lady Catherine herself, as
a wretch as I felt pride. Justine, poor unhappy Justine, was as innocent
in a great hurry; “and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and
Far be it from me,” he presently continued, in a voice that marked his
else but of her expectation that Jane would be soon married to Mr.
chained in an eternal hell. My imagination was vivid, yet my powers of
what manner he thought of her, and whether, in defiance of everything,
alarms being now removed, she was at leisure to feel a great deal of
countenance of my father, but hardly deceived the ever-watchful and nicer
there, I am an outcast in the world for ever.’
discovered them. Felix soon learned that the treacherous Turk, for
I entered the cabin where lay the remains of my ill-fated and admirable
from the preceding flash. The storm, as is often the case in
“There’s more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,” said the
capable of observing outward objects with any kind of pleasure, I
patroness. Twice has she condescended to give me her opinion (unasked
the acquiring the art of language. My organs were indeed harsh, but
than _felt_ herself to be so; for, besides the immediate embarrassment,
especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Miss Eliza (glancing
From this time a new spirit of life animated the decaying frame of the
“Well, girls,” said she, as soon as they were left to themselves, “what
peace. But busy, uninteresting, joyous faces brought back despair to
a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt,
made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elizabeth’s mind;
low that I could with difficulty sit upright in it. No wood, however,
taken, for what painter could do justice to those beautiful eyes?”
has never tried idealism, her realism is real to a degree which makes
behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what
had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have
approached me and said in a smothered voice,
is necessary to calm our apprehensions. For a long time I have thought
The appearance of Justine was calm. She was dressed in mourning, and
“Yes, very handsome.”
his fancy, that: he hasn’t got no sorrow, you know. Come on!”
say that I hate the very sight of him.”
Mr. Wickham was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation, that he
Here I paused, not exactly knowing what path to pursue, when I heard
wishes, however openly or artfully spoken, could influence a young man
caught a dark speck upon the dusky plain. I strained my sight to
to understand by it that he thought of paying his addresses to one of
stranger knelt at the old man’s feet and would have kissed his hand,
speculation! I _will_ leave him to himself.”
had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a
could offer a greater contrast to his own, and though with his own he
voice, and beheld Clerval enjoying health and youth. Often, when wearied by
greatest consolation that I was capable of receiving. They elevated me
meeting its owner returned. She dreaded lest the chambermaid had been
breakfast to indulge herself in air and exercise. She was proceeding
“Mr. Darcy with him.”
_In the first place, the book (it may be barely necessary to remind the
when Sir William Lucas himself appeared, sent by his daughter to
as it did a number of circumstances, each interesting and wonderful to
“You ought to be ashamed of yourself,” said Alice, “a great girl like
That had no need of a remoter charm,
“Yes,” said Alice doubtfully: “it means—to—make—anything—prettier.”
increase. Their faces expressed a mixture of curiosity and anger, which
“How kind and generous you are! every one else believes in her guilt,
deeply did I feel the spirit of revenge enkindled in my heart. Snow
had an insurmountable aversion to the idea of engaging myself in my
introduction had been made.
miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money and rank she
allowances, and urged the possibility of mistakes; but by everybody else
note for Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and the servant waited
at all.”
standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard
thinking, you may suppose, of my dear Wickham. I longed to know whether
consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and
appearance of my father was to me like that of my good angel, and I
the cottagers, I abstained and satisfied myself with berries, nuts, and
constrained manner said,--
all. I needn’t be afraid of them!”
She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she
its execution. He begged to know further particulars of what he was
“Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak to you.”
pass, the quiet tenour of their usual employments, the vexatious
very kind! But where is he, why does he not hasten to me?”
“Dear madam,” cried Mrs. Hill, in great astonishment, “don’t you know
to be so very accomplished as they all are.”
and she refused him. The consequence of it is, that Lady Lucas will have
chance of happiness as if she were to be studying his character for a
which I perceived drew tears from the eyes of his amiable companion, of
acquainted with my failure and how heavily I bore the disappointment.
“I wish I hadn’t cried so much!” said Alice, as she swam about, trying
utility to my fellow creatures, then could I live to fulfil it. But
of encouragement, I know not how to express my refusal in such a way as
Wickham really is. We both know that he has been profligate in every
but the ladies, not having shoes to encounter the remains of a white
We passed a considerable period at Oxford, rambling among its environs
resembled madness in its intensity and effects, he was glad to find
renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there; but on
acknowledged the whole to me. You may imagine what I felt and how I
family.
They agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one
Clerval had never sympathised in my tastes for natural science; and his
Bennet sent them word that they could not possibly have the carriage
almost deprived of life.
so violent, that it would be the death of half the good people in
resume his book; but Mr. Collins, after assuring them that he bore his
there is something in your words which persuades me that you are
chiefly towards you my arch-enemy, because my creator, do I swear
“When the news reached Leghorn that Felix was deprived of his wealth
credit.”
then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their
window, that he wore a blue coat and rode a black horse.
possessed a mind of an uncommon mould, and her courage rose to support
case is this:--we are not rich enough or grand enough for them; and she
re-establish a character. We must not make him desperate.”
[Illustration]
“No,” said Darcy, “I have made no such pretension. I have faults enough,
Allow me to sell you a couple?”
arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece, directed their observation towards
Chapter 6
myself was about to sink under the accumulation of distress when I saw your
“I dare say you’re wondering why I don’t put my arm round your waist,”
to be proud.”
him against returning into Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been
His coming into the country at all is a most insolent thing, indeed, and
the back. At last the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and, with tears
“To whom I have related the affair”
There only remained a resolution to return to my ancient studies and to
“Your plan is a good one,” replied Elizabeth, “where nothing is in
to their fears, hopes, and conjectures, on this interesting subject by
between them; and if she might judge from his complexion, _his_ mind was
of having a companion.
“That’s enough about lessons,” the Gryphon interrupted in a very
distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions. When this was
the insolent smiles of the ladies, were more intolerable.
tolerably warm.
fact. I thought of pursuing the devil; but it would have been in vain, for
for ever from my native country and wandered a friendless outcast over
this?”
diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After these came
preyed upon my wasted frame.
sum of money, she quitted Italy with an attendant, a native of Leghorn,
size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice
of my own country; I have visited the lakes of Lucerne and Uri, where the
wonder what they _will_ do next! If they had any sense, they’d take the
uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little change
should think highly of himself. If I may so express it, he has a _right_
sometimes desired to declare itself to the whole world, and my manners
“I am sure there is not on _his_. I will answer for it, he never cared
“I say no more than the truth, and what everybody will say that knows
mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and seemed
suspect the other of fraud or false dealing, when another friend,
The conclusion of this speech convinced my father that my ideas were
felt any, it could hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected
together in the shrubbery behind the house, they saw the housekeeper
This letter gave Elizabeth some pain; but her spirits returned, as she
the delay of his plan, has merely desired it, asked it without offering
The different accidents of life are not so changeable as the feelings
but she does not know, no one can know, how much I suffer from what she
the first exclamations of surprise and horror, Mr. Gardiner readily
changed several times since then.”
no longer. The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister
living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on: “But
victorious I should be at peace and his power over me be at an end. If he
his breast. I checked, therefore, my impatient thirst for sympathy and was
as personal a feeling. (By the way, the reproach that the ill-manners of
injured in disposition, and thoroughly in love. As for his being in
family. They saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now
with the Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, “I am
felt on the occasion; when it became apparent, that, on the score of
fortune would make so very imprudent. I have nothing to say against
there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the bed, her head hanging down
“Elizabeth, you are not serious now.”
would be an unpleasant thing.”
From the drawing-room they could distinguish nothing in the lane, and
He readily assured her of his secrecy, again expressed his sorrow for
I remained motionless. The thunder ceased; but the rain still
listening to Lady Catherine, and the latter said not a word to her all
into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to the
her, she threw herself at the feet of Elizabeth, weeping bitterly. My
Elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme; assuring him
“No,” said Colonel Fitzwilliam, “that is an advantage which he must
the clerical office as equal in point of dignity with the highest rank
that he had then no reserves, no scruples in sinking Mr. Darcy’s
lover to any of them. She began at length to recover, to fidget about in
be her husband. Without thinking highly either of men or of matrimony,
may I ask--” but checking himself, he added, in a gayer tone, “Is it in
the room where the body lay for interment, that it might be observed what
“You are all kindness, madam; but I believe we must abide by our
subject in so decisive a manner as proved that she was not used to have
seldom withheld, by immediate want of fortune, from entering into
at one end of the history of painting and Meissonier at the other, than
possession of his warmest affection, and secure of her relations’
“From Mr. Collins! and what can _he_ have to say?”
“Ah, Jane, I take your place now, and you must go lower, because I am a
the door, and met Maria in the landing-place, who, breathless with
[Illustration]
learnt, I should have been a great proficient. And so would Anne, if her
persuaded that all this must have taken place with that gentleman’s
this she was perfectly unaware: to her he was only the man who made
“That is not very likely; our authority was too good.”
not heed the bleakness of the weather; I was better fitted by my
not die and leave my adversary in being.
firmness sufficient to answer him, but the effort destroyed all my
dressing-gown, and with her hair half finished, crying out,--
can be spared from me. You are all to come to Pemberley at Christmas.
critical revision of middle life, there may be traced the distinct
prepare. “And are they upon such terms as for her to disclose the real
youth and a tolerable person; and, from the ignorance and emptiness of
confused knowledge of kingdoms, wide extents of country, mighty rivers,
where the priest and his mistress were overwhelmed by an avalanche and
table. “What do you think? It is excellent news, capital news, and about
inconvenient distance; but she was not sorry to be spared the necessity
each with an earnest, though guarded, inquiry; and they soon drew from
spirits increased. She longed to see Mrs. Philips, the Lucases, and all
promise very little; they know that metals cannot be transmuted and that
opened; and Darcy, after a few moments’ recollection, was not sorry for
“You are mistaken, Mr. Darcy, if you suppose that the mode of your
with him to Longbourn before many days had passed after Lady Catherine’s
his creature were, and that I ought to render him happy before I
horror, and then, far from being surprised at my misery, you will only
mischief. I bent over her and placed the portrait securely in one of
accustomed hour when the family arose. That hour passed, the sun
The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed
Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute,
her a good deal until she made out what it was: she was beginning to
crimes are consummated; the miserable series of my being is wound to its
deposition that I have to make. It is indeed a tale so strange that I
had indeed fled, I clapped my hands for joy and ran down to Clerval.
“I thought you did,” said the Mouse. “—I proceed. ‘Edwin and Morcar,
insufficient to contain all her delight, and all her earnest desire of
better satisfied with their visitors than Elizabeth.
had ever fallen to my lot, and expressed my conviction that a man could
ardently desired the acquisition of knowledge. I had often, when at home,
about her repeating “_You are old, Father William_,” to the
wife, so lately living, so dear, so worthy. She had been moved from the
and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.
project. She owed her greatest relief to her friend Miss Lucas, who
girl was young and of gentle demeanour, unlike what I have since found
marked her self-importance, and brought Mr. Wickham immediately to
attribute in some measure to jealousy. Had the late Mr. Darcy liked me
“Who’s making personal remarks now?” the Hatter asked triumphantly.
are, to speak in their own defence before they are condemned. Listen
or rather he has not Wickham’s countenance, for his features are
A sod covers his gentle form, and he knows no pain. He can no longer
persons whose affection could be the growth of only a few weeks, could
“The cottagers arose the next morning before the sun. The young woman
vast mountains of ice are mole-hills which will vanish before the
Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which
to destroy all that was dear to me.
loved, and whose existence was bound up in mine. I thought also of my
man and Agatha.
“I’m the tallest”                                                      9
and Elizabeth suspected herself to be the first creature who had ever
satisfaction as sisters? Mr. Bingley will not be detained in London by
“If he does not come to me, _then_,” said she, “I shall give him up for
the lowness of her spirits unnecessary; nothing, therefore, could be
woman’s father to consent to her marriage with her lover. But the old
attended her own mother during a tedious illness, in a manner that excited
compensation, received soon afterwards material relief, from observing
“The Apothecary came”
incomprehensible. But now it was all too natural. For such an attachment
At that instant my father entered. I saw unhappiness deeply impressed
Do your duty towards me, and I will do mine towards you and the rest of
How differently did everything now appear in which he was concerned! His
endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters,
“Nothing,” said Alice.
laying before you the whole of his connection with my family. Of what he
agitation, listening attentively, catching and fearing each sound as if
a dozen of the sailors, who demanded admission into the cabin. They
father and succeeded him in the business, and a brother settled in
as he spoke, he left the room, fatigued with the raptures of his wife.
looked back once or twice, half hoping that they would call after her:
“When the Party entered”
lively pretty Frenchwoman, Madame Tavernier. She is a widow, and much
replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone,
Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began very
seemed to feel it most acutely--more, I think, than last year. His
Meryton, and see how everybody went on; but Elizabeth steadily opposed
At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came
It is the same: for, be it joy or sorrow,
Elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence this deference for
open, and their visitor entered. It was Lady Catherine de Bourgh.
answer. Let me do it without further loss of time. Accept my thanks for
it sounds! And she was only sixteen last June. My dear Jane, I am in
moved into the Dormouse’s place, and Alice rather unwillingly took the
from you very soon. Miss Bingley said something of his never
“Oh, Mr. Collins!”
took place? They must have seen them together for ever.”
and when Elizabeth, in a faltering voice, proved that it was the same
tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable to move. She soon
with a large party. Nothing could be more delightful! To be fond of
their elopement had been brought on by the strength of her love rather
“’Tis too much!” she added, “by far too much. I do not deserve it. Oh,
days.
rapid stream. I rushed from my hiding-place and with extreme labour,
“_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it.”
thirst, and desire, we might be nearly free; but now we are moved by
over”—these words were legible in one of these
“Believe me, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that your modesty, so far from
“One of them does.”
the evening because you are in each other’s confidence, and have secret
imagination, warmed as it was, by returning with greater ardour to my
She followed her father to the fireplace, and they both sat down. He
they last met, were plainly expressed. She was disappointed, and angry
much; and I do not think we shall have quite money enough to live
nightingale. It was a lovely sight, even to me, poor wretch who had
commendation to think of her as he chose.
had loitered in forests, hid himself in caves, or taken refuge in wide
out into the open air. “If I don’t take this child away with me,”
your attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow it unwillingly, but I
such terms.”
placed in water, and then upon the fire. She afterwards continued her
Chapter I.]
could be done for Lydia, her uncle’s interference seemed of the utmost
“For that matter,” replied the old woman, “if you mean about the
Webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income as yours. Do
should be conveyed to a place of safety. Felix was too delicate to
of the common pathways of men, even to the wild sea and unvisited
whether Wickham has any relations or connections who would be likely to
secure it.”
has often said so, and envied me Jane’s beauty. I do not like to boast
her husband’s. Mr. Darcy took her place by her niece, and they walked on
Heading to Chapter XV.                                                89
were any tears.
satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration, and
point would be not only useless, but draw down treble misery on us all.”
was much to be discussed. Wickham, of course, wanted more than he
sometimes the whirlwind passions of my soul drove me to seek, by bodily
“Oh, yes! You will only think I feel _more_ than I ought to do when I
patriarchal lives of my protectors caused these impressions to take a
hastily rejected. Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of
[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
the folds of her dress. She moved again, and I fled.
that she should employ the power, which her fancy told her she still
“I am sure she did not listen”                                       393
“_I_ call it purring, not growling,” said Alice.
furniture of Rosings.
their own business!”
hope, that shortly after his next return into Hertfordshire, the day
it was indeed I who was reflected in the mirror; and when I became
a wish of being better acquainted with _them_ was expressed towards the
nothing.
She then related that, by the permission of Elizabeth, she had passed
Elizabeth’s mind; and, from the observation of the day altogether, she
although I was unable to define them.
would she have behaved?” were the questions with which she amused
degradation, of the family obstacles which judgment had always opposed
seen me and know little of me. I am full of fears, for if I fail
of his prosperity, when he is thus noble and godlike in ruin! He seems
silent.
an unfavourable augury from my manner.
where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolution of no
Jane certainly could not come back.
its own sake. He was deeply read in books of chivalry and romance. He
one time left by themselves for half an hour, he adhered most
surprised you. Could he, or the Lucases, have pitched on any man, within
was unfolded again; and collecting herself as well as she could, she
minutes of every day in a rational manner.”
towards the valley of Chamounix. I had visited it frequently during my
that Wickham should marry a girl whom it was impossible he could marry
of each other was plain enough to make her a little uneasy; and she
inclined to hope he might have been misunderstood before.”
“Haye Park might do,” said she, “if the Gouldings would quit it, or the
about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that she knew
allowance” by convention, and because it is felt to be the right and
them with one eye; “I seem to see some meaning in them, after all.
and the remembrancers. For an instant I dared to shake off my chains
for there was a certain dignity in his mien during his lecture which in
Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax contributes no doubt a good deal to the
other gift of fortune suffice to chase away the fiend that lurked in my
of this—I murdered her. William, Justine, and Henry—they all
waves.
accent as made her almost unintelligible, to fetch his master and
cousin was to go with him; but Colonel Fitzwilliam had made it clear
be; and I shall begin directly, by asking you what made you so unwilling
only one who shed tears; but she did weep from vexation and envy. Mrs.
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and when she
contain a denial.
[Illustration]
Elizabeth into could not be easily overcome; nor could she for many
the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other, or
noble of human creatures, and am entitled, therefore, to judge respecting
(Dinah was the cat.) “I hope they’ll remember her saucer of milk at
am not in such circumstances as to make five shillings any object. There
“Oh, you foolish Alice!” she answered herself. “How can you learn
circumspection! of all his sister’s falsehood and contrivance! the
only instruction but consolation in the works of the orientalists. I
Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour,
We stayed a day at Mannheim, and on the fifth from our departure from
rather like one doomed by slavery to toil in the mines, or any other
the business. Nothing had ever suggested it before, but they now felt
sake,” turning to Charlotte, “I am glad of it; but otherwise I see no
fallen angel becomes a malignant devil. Yet even that enemy of God and man
her father and who by her gestures expressed her lively gratitude, the
and she listened with increasing astonishment as the housekeeper added,
world a demoniacal enemy? Peace, peace! Learn my miseries and do not seek
Lady Catherine. How wonderfully these sort of things occur! Who would
there.”
around I saw and heard of none like me. Was I, then, a monster, a blot
am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away.”
Elizabeth would not oppose such an injunction; and a moment’s
I continued obdurate. Dear lady, I had none to support me; all looked
union; and now, at the moment when the wishes of both sisters would be
“Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!” thought Alice. “Now we shall get
slept soundly.
that your cousin and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to be
you may be sure of my pardon.”
mother believe the worst, but I cannot think so ill of him. Many
“Protested he must be entirely mistaken”                             161
Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid
of the town of —— from the place where I had deposited the corpse.
said “No, never”) “—so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a
condemn a criminal upon circumstantial evidence, be it ever so
pleased to have got into a conversation.
without the ceremony of a formal invitation. Bingley was all grateful
earnestness, so valuable did he consider my services.
promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the instrument. He
“Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?” the Gryphon
hospitality till the Saturday se’nnight following, which I can do
books.”
“You must not blame my aunt. Lydia’s thoughtlessness first betrayed to
seen him bright and joyous in his young beauty, but must weep over his
our villa a child fairer than pictured cherub—a creature who seemed
out of my wits; and have such tremblings, such flutterings all over me,
She would not give him time to reply, but hurrying instantly to her
they have been intended for each other. It was the favourite wish of
he hardly knew how to look, and they entered the house.
Such were the professor’s words—rather let me say such the words of
a sleepless night and the fate of poor William was yet uncertain.
CHAPTER VII.   A Mad Tea-Party
“Indeed!”
lips when we meet, occasioned by this or any other exertion of mine, I
my bosom; my gloom disappeared, and in a short time I became as
scruple to call out,--
cold shivering came over me. I threw the door forcibly open, as
not only you and your family, but thousands of others, shall be
or two. When I last saw her, she was not very promising. I am very glad
She is grown so brown and coarse! Louisa and I were agreeing that we
family! Never in her life had she seen his manners so little dignified,
cheap situation, and always spending more than they ought. His affection
the old man was recommencing his music when someone tapped at the door.
they pinched it on both sides at once.
“Indeed I do not dare.”
the thought made me shiver, that the creature whom I had left in my
as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches,
my dear sister of my welfare and increasing confidence in the success
thoughts, unchecked by reason, to ramble in the fields of Paradise, and
only she has of course not counted in what was due to her own personal
across the waters with an arrowy swiftness and was soon lost amidst the
delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you
at her own discomposure; but, amongst other causes of disquiet, she
“Mr. Darcy is all politeness,” said Elizabeth, smiling.
Saying this, he suddenly quitted me, fearful, perhaps, of any change in
beings. Now all was blasted; instead of that serenity of conscience
a reply.
husband’s incivility; though it was very mortifying to know that her
his house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming
previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was distant
died, I viewed the expanse before me with anguish, when suddenly my eye
taken rather less pains, though she has been even more unkind to her;
After wandering along the lane for two hours, giving way to every
But this was not the time for delay; I disencumbered the dogs of their
“Of whom does Jane ever think ill? And who is there, whatever might be
“Nobody asked _your_ opinion,” said Alice.
man and will ripen our food. The picture I present to you is peaceful
the praise on her sister’s warm affection.
basis the excellent understanding and super-excellent disposition of
But when you have had time to think it all over, I hope you will be
and his daughter, frightened almost out of her senses, sat on the edge
ever. Are you to be happy while I grovel in the intensity of my
“What! is he coming home, and without poor Lydia?” she cried. “Sure he
anticipated with such joy, so strangely turned to bitterness. But I
and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen
“I endeavoured to crush these fears and to fortify myself for the trial
“And then you have added so much to it yourself--you are always buying
appearance of composure, and would not open his lips till he believed
My departure for Ingolstadt, which had been deferred by these events,
sometimes made choice of his county; but, as he was now provided with a
father had been short and to the purpose.
severe on us, and our surest way of disappointing him will be to ask
Mr. Bingley and Jane were standing together a little detached from the
convalescence. I felt also sentiments of joy and affection revive in
breakfast-room, “and what do you think of my husband? Is not he a
inclined to think that you would not wish to see _your sister_ make such
she was still full of indignation: but when she considered how unjustly
cast off all feeling, subdued all anguish, to riot in the excess of my
hand again, and made another snatch in the air. This time there were
“I am very glad to hear such a good account of her,” said Lady
instructor, without letting escape (inexperience in life would have
[Illustration:
“Protested
“If one could but go to Brighton!” observed Mrs. Bennet.
The good news quickly spread through the house; and with proportionate
know what I have written.”
sister, since till death she was to be mine only.
want to go! Let me see: I’ll give them a new pair of boots every
“are done with a whiting. Now you know.”
“I cannot believe it. Why should they try to influence him? They can
“She is a great fool for going away, if she liked him.”
“How very ill Eliza Bennet looks this morning, Mr. Darcy,” she cried: “I
recollection, and a returning smile, replied, that he had formerly seen
threaten every moment to crush my vessel. The brave fellows whom I
miles round. It settled the matter; and they pursued the accustomed
the live embers. I found that the berries were spoiled by this
in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three
not exactly like her own; but she could not have supposed it possible
the river was too gentle to aid us.
which he valued. He reminds me how often the same accidents have
Geneva, I was, to a great degree, self-taught with regard to my favourite
spirits: my men are bold and apparently firm of purpose, nor do the
and save me, that I may again and again testify my gratitude for all your
Warm tears filled my eyes, which I hastily wiped away, that they might
again.
“Yes, Miss Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady Catherine
of her cottage, waiting for the return of the fishermen, about an hour
it kills all the rats and—oh dear!” cried Alice in a sorrowful tone,
believed her to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal,
“I do not at all know; but I _heard_ nothing of his going away when I
was deeply grieved by his retreat in these unfortunate circumstances.
told me all about it.”
ringlets, and mine doesn’t go in ringlets at all; and I’m sure I can’t
render Mr. Darcy’s conduct in it less than infamous, was capable of a
nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, “What are tarts made of?”
silenced him; but he soon afterwards said,--
which, in its course, has swept away all my hopes and joys.
visitor took his leave for the night; but as soon as he was gone, he
off a bit of the edge with each hand.
A bright idea came into Alice’s head. “Is that the reason so many
“She’s in prison,” the Queen said to the executioner: “fetch her here.”
created, a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding
the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?”
every hope of consolation, to live? Oh, no! The only joy that he can
satisfying them instantly on that head, she eagerly communicated the
one! There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And
The sun sank lower in the heavens; we passed the river Drance and
that, with the strong north wind that had arisen during the night, it
creation of a being like myself, or one of simpler organization; but my
myself in some thick underwood, determining to devote the ensuing hours
“Insolent girl!” said Elizabeth to herself. “You are much mistaken if
At length, every idea seemed to fail him; and after standing a few
and glory; I have lost my friend. But I will endeavour to detail these
much attention for any of these new friends; and she could do nothing
the kindness of her hints, they parted,--a wonderful instance of advice
solely wrapped up in this, improved so rapidly that at the end of two
animated. Mrs. Collins knew not what to make of him. Colonel
relapse, I was obliged to travel nearly a hundred miles to the country
Several new kinds of plants sprang up in the garden, which they
could not imagine. But how little of permanent happiness could belong to
She followed him thither; and her curiosity to know what he had to tell
terror, because at every new incident your fortitude was to be called forth
children have been wanting me this half hour.
before the rest of the party with whom he had been travelling. “They
consequence of any reply. Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and,
softened by his manner of expressing himself.”
may be, and caring no more for us than if we were at York, provided she
would not deny herself to me. My companion must be of the same species
will be disregarded? Why did not you seek legal redress?”
Chapter 9
of the river, when suddenly her foot slipped, and she fell into the
]
pleasantness of the walk to it, or of the people who lived in it, the
Mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she
*      *      *      *      *      *
CHAPTER XXXIII.
however, which the benevolence of her heart suggested, had not yet
was serene; and, as I was unable to rest, I resolved to visit the spot
settled. They were to be off as soon as possible. “But what is to be
father, will not take the trouble of checking her exuberant spirits, and
she seldom went away without leaving them more dispirited than she found
it.
sudden removal was soon evident. Lady Catherine had been rendered so
once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own. Till the next
or affectation, and then added that his lecture had removed my
in default of heirs male, on a distant relation; and their mother’s
disengaged, he never came near enough to speak. She felt it to be the
sensation towards the original than she had ever felt in the height of
“And if I had not a letter to write myself, I might sit by you, and
having listened to the exhortations of her father. It was not thus
uniform cheerfulness of manner, which would guard her from the
They then sat down, and when her inquiries after Rosings were made,
his formal civility was just what it had been; and he detained her some
Nothing is more painful to the human mind than, after the feelings have
of the sea.”
matters till they reached the Parsonage. There, shut into her own room,
one left alive!”
Mr. Collins had a compliment and an allusion to throw in here, which
She was immediately told, that the two gentlemen from Rosings had each
“My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,” said Alice very politely;
they went, for neither Lydia nor Mr. Collins were once silent. Lydia
head. But at any rate he might answer questions.—How am I to get in?”
on its banks, and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace
deserving her mother’s reproach prevented his feeling any regret.
the next ball we meet with great pleasure. I shall send for my
Longbourn, produced from her, amid very complaisant smiles and general
refrain from relating them. One of his most intimate friends was a
probable feelings of a man spoilt in the common sense, but not really
varied, however, her determination never did.
rabbits. I almost wish I hadn’t gone down that rabbit-hole—and yet—and
very wretched. But since the murderer has been discovered—”
repulsive countenance; the teacher, therefore, did not prepossess me in
the morning. So soon as he had finished, the youth began, not to play,
understanding, Darcy was the superior. Bingley was by no means
will demand all my fortitude: I am required not only to raise the spirits
with herself for being so.
being so addressed was very evident. Her cousin prefaced his speech with
Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was
to this sudden attack was delightful to her mother’s ear.
about eight feet in height, and proportionably large. After having
Nothing could be more complete than the alteration that had taken place
“Thinking again?” the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp
ten-thousandth portion of the anguish that was mine during the
Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every
married, I shall have nothing to wish for.”
which he first lived. I was unable to pursue the train of thought; a
banished from my mind every thought that could lead to a different
“I am,” said she, “the cousin of the unhappy child who
“You are quite a visit in my debt, Mr. Bingley,” she added; “for when
salubrious air I breathed, the natural incidents of our progress, and
upon a journey where your sufferings will satisfy my everlasting
Elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily
should I have any fresh incidents to record.
ignorance.”
saw the superscription of Elizabeth or my father, I hardly dared to
Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling
different sort of men, and that he hates me.”
“Why, _she_, of course,” said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one
cause of the tumult. “They shout,” I said, “because they
which she had begun to entertain for him from the first, and was in a
“But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes into
were calmer and more composed than they had ever been since my journey
length arrives when grief is rather an indulgence than a necessity; and
laugh. It rang on my ears long and heavily; the mountains re-echoed
question again recurred, to be answered only with groans.
greatest improvements have been and may be made; it is on that account that
Elizabeth answered only by a slight bow. Her thoughts were instantly
“He came down to see the place”                                        2
I had sufficient leisure for these and many other reflections during my
Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take
sheet of elegant, little, hot-pressed paper, well covered with a lady’s
friend, you see by Jane’s account, was persuaded of his never intending
trouble, you know, as we needn’t try to find any. And yet I don’t
being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once before called late in
you. Chase away your idle fears; to you alone do I consecrate my life
thought her the model of all excellence and endeavoured to imitate her
one day at least permits me to enjoy.”
The conversation soon turned upon fishing; and she heard Mr. Darcy
next day, and their aunt promised to make her husband call on Mr.
application, it had given her likewise a pedantic air and conceited
rather sharply; “I advise you to leave off this minute!” She generally
But when this subject was succeeded by his account of Mr. Wickham--when
“Cheshire Puss,” she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all know
the cottagers greatly endeared them to me; when they were unhappy, I
have viewed my operations, can bear witness of my truth. I am the
Who could have imagined that we should receive an invitation to dine
the house.
am to suffer ignominy and death.”
study and laborious disquisition. I had heard of some discoveries
you appear; so thin and pale; you look as if you had been watching for
marriage was fixed on. And I think you will agree with me, in
opening for wit, to have a dislike of that kind. One may be continually
enough to provoke him.
nothing, she walked on; but it would not do: in half a minute the letter
children,” she said, “my firmest hopes of future happiness were
and it cannot be delayed. Imprudent as a marriage between Mr. Wickham
leave.
lobsters to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So they had to
marriage. My dear Charlotte and I have but one mind and one way of
further than the remark that Charlotte Lucas (her egregious papa, though
and, had she consulted only her own inclination, any meeting with him
own future property. The dinner, too, in its turn, was highly admired;
there seemed an embargo on every subject. At last she recollected that
But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my
for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with Mr.
acquaintance of some of those very people, against whom his pride had
“A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the causes of
our ages. I need not say that we were strangers to any species of
several hours of the night in a barn belonging to a cottage, being
She paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening
only one man in it push off from that part of the shore where the corpse
say that he was at Rosings?”
CHAPTER XVI.
for apples, yer honour!”
“Would you tell me,” said Alice, a little timidly, “why you are
meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that
day. When she saw him thus seeking the acquaintance, and courting the
repeated her question. “Why did they live at the bottom of a well?”
so herself on Saturday. I shall walk to Meryton to-morrow to hear more
Chapter 9
towards England and towards you, I will not despond.
his resentments, of his having an unforgiving temper. His disposition
through the seas which surround the pole. You may remember that a
news the country in general might be, they always contrived to learn
reason. But _your_ arts and allurements may, in a moment of infatuation,
town where the court was held. Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every
“—or next day, maybe,” the Footman continued in the same tone, exactly
taken place, for there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone
always had a value for him. Were it for nothing but his love of you, I
London, and there relate her journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the
attracted even to the most repulsive among them, as to creatures of an
immediate union with my cousin would conduce either to hers or my
pursue its own course and gave way to my own miserable reflections. I
otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be
“How dreadfully savage!” exclaimed Alice.
information of what was going on; and their uncle promised, at parting,
Elizabeth half expected Mr. Bingley to do, he was able to bring Darcy
“Oh yes!--if one could but go to Brighton! But papa is so disagreeable.”
be renewed.
place the night before, and the fields were of one uniform white; the
“If this is your present temper, my friend, you will perhaps be glad
progress was slow, for Mr. Gardiner, though seldom able to indulge the
Chapter 8
importing that she felt herself so dull as to make her very desirous of
little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her
delight, which words could but poorly express. Every sentence of
soon as they had driven from the door, Elizabeth was called on by her
us as soon as you returned. I have not forgot, you see; and I assure you
becoming one among my fellows. The gentle words of Agatha and the
speed through the neighbourhood. It was borne in the latter with decent
out of the room, but I reflected that I ought not to leave the relics of my
Pemberley. You blamed me for coming?”
forget, as you said that I could not have addressed you in any possible
of returning to my friends and my native town, when an incident
inconveniences--cheerfulness to enhance every pleasure--and affection
faculty of character-creation--masterpieces who may indeed admit John
however, to much conversation; and when Miss Bingley left them together,
very agreeable, and I give you leave to like him. You have liked many a
“Covering a screen”                                                   45
my existence and of its unspeakable torments, dared to hope for
she ventured, without any permission, to do the same by all her
laughed, “Let the jury consider their verdict,” the King said, for
Jane shook her head.
Colonel Forster believed that more than a thousand pounds would be
rob me of or bestow happiness on me for ever. I struggled vainly for
greatly with respect to me; and I could wish, Miss Bennet, that you were
“Yes, and I hope to engage you to be serious likewise.”
persons accustomed to see without sympathising in sights of misery. Her
in various ways, with barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and
she succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough,
to being married, a girl likes to be crossed in love a little now and
that he was so well convinced of Lady Catherine’s discernment as to be
Bingley’s regard; and yet it was not in her nature to question the
in his knowledge of its various languages, and in the views he had
Bingley was punctual to his appointment; and he and Mr. Bennet spent the
in mud, I am absolutely certain, and the gown which had been let down to
with everybody, and had so many favourites.
way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and
monster.’
“I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. Bingley. How can Mr. Bingley,
down to quadrille; and as Miss De Bourgh chose to play at cassino, the
prevail in the great monarchies that surround it. Hence there is less
somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid
manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody, and Darcy had
of his beloved Safie were misfortunes more bitter and irreparable. The
that the interference of friends will persuade a young man of
Wickham.
How far your nephew might approve of your interference in _his_ affairs,
her ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement. This is not
room, handsomely fitted up. Elizabeth, after slightly surveying it, went
settlement. There will not be the smallest occasion for your coming
eye.’ _Mr. Darcy_, you see, is the man! Now, Lizzy, I think I _have_
last month. I retired to rest at night; my slumbers, as it were,
her for the sorrows she had endured, but which gave inexpressible grace
the sick impotence of despair. There was none among the myriads of men
these preliminary circumstances; but they were days of comparative
wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was
not to sketch my character at the present moment, as there is reason to
your Hunsford visit cannot have been entirely irksome. Our situation
it was two or three days before he could get from her what he
her notice. Mrs. Philips was quite awed by such an excess of good
had been taken in; thirdly, she trusted that they would never be happy
“She boxed the Queen’s ears—” the Rabbit began. Alice gave a little
down the bottle, saying to herself “That’s quite enough—I hope I shan’t
before, had been almost an angel of light. He was declared to be in debt
declined eating anything; and then, rising up, said to Elizabeth,--
dissipation. For about three years I heard little of him; but on the
So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
know where this thirst for vengeance may end. Miserable himself that he may
daughters I cannot understand; and all for the sake of Mr. Collins, too!
Wickham, as to believe him capable of the attempt.”
greater--what shall I call it?--susceptibility to her feelings; which
regarded her with jealous abhorrence. Whenever Charlotte came to see
wisdom! Cease; you know not what it is you say.”
When I quitted Geneva my first labour was to gain some clue by which I
uncommon advantage. The picturesque would be spoilt by admitting a
“How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last November, Mr. Darcy!
in the world; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have
flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and
sister scarcely opened their mouths except to complain of fatigue, and
“As yet I looked upon crime as a distant evil, benevolence and
“Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?”
with pleasure to this proposition: I was fond of exercise, and Clerval
“I am glad you are come back, Lizzy.”
but he raised her and embraced her affectionately.
gall of envy rose within me.
Mary Wollstonecraft protested with better general sense than particular
In the mean time I worked on, and my labour was already considerably
any of the family, went to a magistrate; and, upon their deposition,
This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse go on for
enemy on earth, and none surely would have been so wicked as to destroy me
loud.
well as fast as you can; and since you appear in such good spirits, I
off.
tremendous and overwhelming sound. The work was soon finished; in a few
When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the card tables
the most shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it. His answer
Heading to Chapter XIV.                                               84
entered my soul; and I felt then that I should survive to exhibit what
Elizabeth, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by herself,
more conveniently than from my hand of the pure water which flowed by
wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, _make_ them
assure you, he informed me himself.”
her only alternative. She declared her resolution.
difficulty and labour. I doubted at first whether I should attempt the
she felt that he would probably strike into some other path. The idea
own reflections, to admire and love the heroes of past ages. Many
“She did indeed, Louisa. I could hardly keep my countenance. Very
came back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose. Mrs.
phenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are in those undiscovered
friend to join it.
Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any
felt for her high rank, and his veneration for her as his patroness,
his character been known, this could not have happened. But it is all,
short periods of writing--one of about three years, and another of not
violent blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot!
tacit engagement with Miss de Bourgh? Are you lost to every feeling of
meeting you. Will you do me the honour of reading that letter?” and
When I found so astonishing a power placed within my hands, I hesitated
master said, “Here is our captain, and he will not allow you to perish
scornful refusal acting on a nature_ ex hypothesi _generous. Nothing in
and if these friends are good and amiable, do not despair.’
tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the gates and
be made out from them. His principal object must be to discover the
enough to speak, she, in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lydia’s
have been, can death be any evil to me?”
ignorant, I must be more explicit. On the very day of my coming
either question, it didn’t much matter which way she put it. She felt
ignominious grave, and I the cause! A thousand times rather would I
himself.”
“I couldn’t afford to learn it.” said the Mock Turtle with a sigh. “I
are your uncles and aunts? Do not imagine me ignorant of their
inaction and certainty which follows and deprives the soul both of hope
seriously to work to find it out: she watched him whenever they were at
He then took me into his laboratory and explained to me the uses of his
Elizabeth to cease her vain and tormenting self-accusations.—Poor
purpose of infusing life into an inanimate body. For this I had
either been deceived with regard to her fortune, or had been gratifying
studies. My father was not scientific, and I was left to struggle with a
many months ago from Mr. Wickham. On this subject, what can you have to
August 5th, 17—.
Then perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying, she added,
certainly not be hampered by any of those loosenesses of construction,
room in the extremest agitation. Tears also gushed from the eyes of
compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces.”
Nought may endure but mutability!
the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose good conduct in
own Elizabeth:
compassion made her a more fit companion for one blasted and miserable as I
The road ran by the side of the lake, which became narrower as I
stately, and his manners were very formal. He had not been long seated
“We had the best of educations—in fact, we went to school every day—”
wife may teach him. I thought him very sly; he hardly ever
violent hurry, as Mrs. Forster called her, and they were going to the
tranquillity.
fatigue, I lay down among some straw and fell asleep.
who encountered death for honour and the benefit of mankind. And now,
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
wrapped him up in blankets and placed him near the chimney of the
chosen. The completion of my demoniacal design became an insatiable
clever thing the King had said that day.
fortnight. Not one party, or scheme, or anything! To be sure, London was
in drawing the picture of my early days, I also record those events which
are an ogre. Let me go, or I will tell my papa.’
to him; and on George Wickham, who was his godson, his kindness was
In a short time, I shall have a daughter married. Mrs. Wickham! How well
most gratifying consummation of my toils. But this discovery was so
[Illustration:
walking slowly towards the house.
Meryton last night: I saw her passing by, and went out myself on purpose
“Your coming to Longbourn, to see me and my family,” said Elizabeth
pardon for having displeased her. In a softened tone she declared
your success. Chemistry is that branch of natural philosophy in which the
wishes; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved
/* NIND “My dearest Lizzie, */
We ascended into my room, and the servant presently brought breakfast;
return it.
nurse! But I’ve got to see that the mouse doesn’t get out.’ Only I
“Do you talk by rule, then, while you are dancing?”
Alice could think of nothing else to say but “It belongs to the
diligences and carriages usually stopped. Here I paused, I knew not why;
to know the truth of it; and she told me that it was certainly true. He
never want to see him again. But, however, he is very welcome to come to
make herself agreeable to all; and in the latter object, where she
From his garden, Mr. Collins would have led them round his two meadows;
Bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid, who
without any inconvenience, as Lady Catherine is far from objecting
could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of _her_, in spite of
Preparations were made for the event, congratulatory visits were received,
has been sometimes found before, that an event to which she had looked
determination of making him speak, she continued,--
acknowledged to have required the utmost force of passion to put aside
for the young people. His debts are to be paid, amounting, I
permitted it. The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most
“But I hope there is no strong attachment on either side,” said Jane.
letter which promises well. I am impatient to see him.”
When they parted, Lady Catherine, with great condescension, wished them
]
report is spread abroad?”
must have witnessed. That his two sisters and Mr. Darcy, however, should
married a man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider
him from such foul misconduct as I have suffered by. I only fear that
[Illustration: [_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]
vanity she had not yet been able to reason away, was such a temptation
in her own parish, the minutest concerns of which were carried to her by
When the tea things were removed, and the card tables placed, the ladies
that he should have attentive and conciliatory manners towards
resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege, without which her
fancy—Who’s to go down the chimney?—Nay, _I_ shan’t! _You_ do
when he speaks, although his words are culled with the choicest art,
Unfeeling, selfish girl! Do you not consider that a connection with you
you to stay two months. I told Mrs. Collins so before you came. There
anybody for more than half a minute, and never attended to Mary at all.
I am inclined to think that her own disposition must be naturally
waiting for them on the other side; but nothing appeared. I stepped
it, is now, and has been many months, inexpressibly painful to me. Your
Wickham’s affection for Lydia was just what Elizabeth had expected to
hope that the period of future happiness, to which Miss Bingley looks
visited my mind, and if I was ever overcome by _ennui_, the sight of what
undeceiving them. I am blind and cannot judge of your countenance, but
longer see the sun or stars or feel the winds play on my cheeks. Light,
Nothing is false; nothing is superfluous. When (to take the present book
“Take off your hat,” the King said to the Hatter.
it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of
tasted much more savoury than the berries I gathered from the trees. I
woman, and a great favourite with her Longbourn nieces. Between the two
of the court, “Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!”
to hide itself behind your snowy precipices and illuminate another
such a degree that he was entirely confined to his bed. The ice cracked
the escape of the merchant, the zeal of Felix was warmed by several
for Charlotte’s sake, she made more favourable than it really was. But
thing, in all this dirt! You will not be fit to be seen when you get
every remarkable spot and point of view. They gradually ascended for
with the most devoted affection, but the poor girl died, and the
though he exclaimed at the term, she found that it had been pretty much
flatter myself it will not sink me in your esteem. And now nothing
attempt to reason with or soothe her would only increase the irritation.
Elizabeth looked surprised. The gentleman experienced some change of
flattered them a year ago, everything, she was persuaded, would be
restraint the apprehensions of disgrace in the corps might throw on a
this could not have happened!”
“It is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opinion,
copied.”
father (who, however, may live many years longer), I could not satisfy
Gardiner that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all before she
imitation of the Persian and Arabic writers, he invented tales of wonderful
some other point on which her wishes and hopes might be fixed, and by
Powerful (if not exactly Bountiful) of an out-of-the-way country parish,
and trust he will excuse my not having done it before. My total
cottagers, but I was shut out from intercourse with them, except
and avarice begin? Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me,
the valley assumed a more magnificent and astonishing character.
poverty, of rank, descent, and noble blood.
no man would venture to intrude? Besides, some months have elapsed since
“Miss Bennet, I am shocked and astonished. I expected to find a more
his tale.
we attempt to describe any particular scene, will we begin quarrelling
Presently she began again. “I wonder if I shall fall right _through_
that I did everything in my power to separate my friend from your
laughter frightened and astonished him.
“What is his name?”
His first object with her, he acknowledged, had been to persuade
There was no want of discourse. The bride and her mother could neither
of ponies would be the very thing. But I must write no more. The
“He struggled violently. ‘Let me go,’ he cried;
prove so; for else they will be destitute enough. Things are settled so
have persuaded to be my companions look towards me for aid, but I have
little. Eager to be alone, and fearful of inquiries or hints from her
expected. Her uncle and aunt were all amazement; and the embarrassment
“Oh, yes! They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were traced
seeing her again I shall speak in the highest terms of your modesty,
danger, owing to the dreadful circumstance that I have related. My wife and
under the tidings that I bore. I see him now, excellent and venerable old
presentiment of who it was and wished to rouse one of the peasants who
partner she had scarcely replied, before Mr. Collins came up to them,
Felix came up hastily to the lady, who, when she saw him, threw up her
for ever before me, ghastly and murdered. More than once the agitation
agreeable asylum from the snow and rain.
in Meryton, where he had made a tolerable fortune, and risen to the
March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting
never change; and I think our placid home and our contented hearts are
harrowing sensations that would possess me during the progress of my
that she had put on one of the Rabbit’s little white kid gloves while
together, and given her a sort of intimacy with his ways--seen anything
dogmatism, and his instructions were given with an air of frankness and
was in town; and why not to me? If he fears me, why come hither? If he
“Which is just the case with _mine_,” said the Hatter.
visit to Rosings. Mr. Collins was carefully instructing them in what
growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same
observed in them for ever.”
treatment I had formerly endured in the first village which I entered.
as I, and she suffered the same charge; she died for it; and I am the cause
the countenances of the judges had already condemned my unhappy victim,
The Knave shook his head sadly. “Do I look like it?” he said. (Which he
Bingleys were no otherwise in her thoughts at the same time than as she
Tailpiece to Chapter V.                                               26
the place which, in all their former parties, had belonged to him, by
her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that, without
for the kindness he had received at Longbourn in the winter, and his
relations all wish the connection as much as his own; and a sister’s
reposed. I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their
absence from Netherfield would prevent Mr. Bingley’s being there; and as
oh! That I could, with the extinction of your miserable existence, restore
“Thank you, it’s a very interesting dance to watch,” said Alice,
this Alice thought decidedly uncivil. “But perhaps he can’t help it,”
Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother. To Mr. Bennet’s
“Nothing whatever,” said Alice.
and hatred, it did not endure the violence of the change without
distinguished philosophers.” In the second place, it is rash, I think,
distant surmises; but he eluded the skill of them all; and they were at
never intended to go there, or to marry Lydia at all, which was repeated
not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly
frequent opportunity now of seeing her on the most intimate footing; her
was yet in my power to bestow.
of the gates into the ground.
eyes half closed and his limbs hanging listlessly—I was roused by half
news of them.
She sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without daring to
both----”
“They lived on treacle,” said the Dormouse, after thinking a minute or
in darkness, yet still displaying their black outlines.
to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of his servants are to be
continuance; and Miss Lucas, who accepted him solely from the pure and
Collins is perfectly natural, and perfectly alive. In fact, for all the
for ever—that the brightness of a beloved eye can have been
entered into her scheme of their all going to Newcastle, was likely to
child! And now here’s Mr. Bennet gone away, and I know he will fight
she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her was another
to extend to her a share of the respect and affection (affection and
conciliating, nor was her manner of receiving them such as to make her
sister as to prove him capable of some amiable feeling;--that had his
beneficial; but a fatal prejudice clouds their eyes, and where they
“On the stairs”                                                      189
pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment, or are the
LONDON
“So he did, so he did,” said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn; and both
they will settle so quietly, and live in so rational a manner, as may in
cook, and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen. He begged
the scene was changed. The ambition of the inquirer seemed to limit
gentlewoman for _my_ sake, and for your _own_; let her be an active,
trust, I am resigned. Perhaps not the less so from feeling a doubt of my
Contents
her.”
whose eagerness for their cousin’s appearance would not allow them to
invitation.
Jane had suffered, and still continued to suffer. He had ruined for a
[Illustration]
she could not determine whether the silent contempt of the gentleman, or
me either with pleasure or pain. I am glad of one thing, that he comes
and exclaiming after prizes, to have attention for anyone in particular.
fearing she was indisposed. Maria thought speaking out of the question,
foolish.”
Alice was silent.
Victor—tomorrow he shall have it.” And when, on the morrow, she
Her inquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered. Miss
“Oh, thoughtless, thoughtless Lydia!” cried Elizabeth when she had
the third her repining was over, and her sister justified, by the
“I never saw anyone so shocked. He could not speak a word for full ten
[Illustration:
of fun the other day at Colonel Forster’s! Kitty and me were to spend
She saw him start at this; but he said nothing, and she continued,--
The first week of their return was soon gone. The second began. It was
“I haven’t opened it yet,” said the White Rabbit, “but it seems to be a
disgrace?”
_was like him; he is there--alive, imperishable, more real than hundreds
Longbourn, heard in what manner he spoke of the man who had behaved with
she thought he must be sensible himself. It was a subject, in short, on
idea what Latitude was, or Longitude either, but thought they were nice
“What was _that_ like?” said Alice.
“That you were gone into the army, and she was afraid had--not turned
coming back to finish his story.
quick pace, and we soon arrived at my college. I then reflected, and
“Complied with! I am only ashamed of his asking so little.”
face, and was beating her violently with its wings.
progressively led to it were obliterated, and I beheld only the result.
daydreams are more extended and magnificent, but they want (as the painters
When Mr. Bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual
“EDW. GARDINER.”
“I do,” Alice hastily replied; “at least—at least I mean what I
November 18th, by four o’clock, and shall probably trespass on your
explain to Safie, and by which he appeared to wish to express that she